Introduction
============

In order to pass scene data for rendering, either the luxrender API or the .lxs
file format can be used. While the API and the .lxs file format are closely
related, this document only covers the description of the .lxs file format. The
API format uses the same basic commands, but has a different input syntax. See
[API Usage Example](/API__Usage_example "API_ Usage_example"). This should aid
both exporter writers and those wishing to gain more control over the rendering
process.

Basics
======

An .lxs file is an ASCII text file with a full description of the scene to be
rendered. As scene descriptions can get quite large, there is a mechanism to
break the scene description down into more manageable pieces: the description
can be spread over several text files. The suggested organization is the
following:

1.  A main scene file with extension `.lxs`. For example: `scene.lxs`
2.  An intended *material* file with suffix `-mat` and extension `.lxm`.
    For example: `scene-mat.lxm`
3.  An included *geometry* file with suffix `-geom` and extension `.lxo`. For
    example: `scene-geom.lxo`
4.  An optional *volume* file with suffix `-vol` and extension `.lxv`. For
    example: `scene-vol.lxv`

You can include each additional file into the scene file via the "Include"
statement:

    Include "scene-geom.lxo"

Coordinate System
-----------------

LuxRender uses a 3D coordinate system where the Z axis points upward and where
positive increments of the Y coordinate move away from the camera. This is
consistent with Blender's coordinate system. If you need to write an exporter
from a program that uses a Y-up system, you need to swap the Y value with the Z
value when writing the LuxRender file. In addition, if positive values of the
original Z axis move the object toward the camera, you will need to multiply
that value by -1 when exporting to Lux.

Basic Structure
---------------

While the contents of .lxs files may vary considerably, even the simplest scenes
will have the following: a camera specification, at least one light source, a
film specification, transformations, primitives, materials, textures and so
on...

The following example .lxs file will be the example used in all following
explanation:

    # This is an example of a comment!

    # Global Information
    LookAt 0 10 100 0 -1 0 0 1 0
    Camera "perspective" "float fov" [30]

    Film "fleximage"
    "integer xresolution" [300] "integer yresolution" [300]

    PixelFilter "mitchell" "float xwidth" [2] "float ywidth" [2]
                "bool supersample" ["true"]

    Sampler "metropolis"

    #Scene Specific Information
    WorldBegin

    AttributeBegin
      CoordSysTransform "camera"
      LightSource "distant"
          "point from" [0 0 0] "point to" [0 0 1]
          "color L" [3 3 3]
    AttributeEnd

    AttributeBegin
      Rotate 135 1 0 0

      Texture "clouds_noise_generator" "float" "blender_clouds"
          "string coordinates" ["local"] "float noisesize" [2.15]
          "string noisebasis" "voronoi_crackle"

      Texture "clouds_diffuse" "color" "mix"
          "color tex1" [0.8 0.1 0.1] "color tex2" [0.1 0.1 0.8]
          "texture amount" "clouds_noise_generator"

      Material "matte" "texture Kd" "clouds_diffuse"
      Shape "disk" "float radius" [20] "float height" [-1]
    AttributeEnd

    WorldEnd

Global vs Scene Specific Information
------------------------------------

Notice that in the `.lxs` file structure, global information is given before
scene specific information.

### Global information

This is information that describes how the scene is going to be rendered; it
includes types of and settings for the camera, sampler and film and so on. While
the position and rotation of a camera may be considered part of the specific
scene description, the camera defines the final render area and is therefore
more important to the rendering process than say, geometry. This data is given
at the top of the `.lxs` file.

#### LookAt

The `LookAt` transformation takes 3 vectors as options:

    LookAt   0 0 0
             0 1 0
             0 0 1

The first vector (0 0 0 in this example) is the position of the camera. The
second vector (0 1 0) is the position of the target of the camera. The last
vector (0 0 1) is the up vector.

This is quite a simple transformation, which allows you to specify 2 points, one
where the camera is located and another point of 'interest'. This can also be
given as a unit vector. The up vector is a unit vector which defines how the
camera is help up, it should point upwards of your camera, e. g. if it is held
straight, it will be 0 0 1 (+Z up).

### Scene specific information

Geometry, materials, textures â€” these obviously affect the final image but have
no bearing on how the scene is to be rendered. This data is given between the
WorldBegin and WorldEnd statements after the global information. More on these
statements and the `Attribute` statements a little later.

The distinction between the global information and the scene specific
information is not arbitrary. LuxRender processes and "locks" global information
first before looking at scene specific information. This implementation would
allow you to tessellate geometry based on what is viewed from the camera, for
instance.

### Components of a .lxs file

Notice these features occur frequently throughout the .lxs file:

- **Comments** Any text on a line beginning with a `#` is ignored by the parser.
  Often these are useful to give readable descriptions of what you are doing!

- **Statements** `WorldBegin` and `AttributeEnd` are examples of statements.
  These are important in describing the properties of whole blocks of data.

- **Identifiers** `Camera`, `Sampler`, `Texture` and `Material` are some
  examples of identifiers. These indicate what aspect of the scene is being
  described.

- **Types** These are given in quotes, often after an identifier to specify an
  implementation to use. For example, by giving the type "perspective" after the
  `Camera` identifier, the renderer can use the intended camera model.

- **Parameters** Parameters typically consist of two parts: the type of
  parameter followed by the parameter name in given in quotes, followed by the
  actual value of the parameter given. The type of a parameter can be an
  integer, a float, a point, a normal, a color, a bool or a string. Continuing
  our example, the field of view ('fov') needs to be passed to our camera and as
  this parameter is of type float, we type `"float fov" [30]`. Note that as
  `Rotate` and `LookAt` take a predetermined amount of numbers and types of
  arguments they do not need parameter types or quotes.

### Importance of parameter types

It is important to explain why you need to specify whether you are giving an
integer or float every single time you give a parameter. It may seem like that
tedium should be taken care of automatically, but LuxRender would be far less
flexible if that were the case. LuxRender is based on plugins, functional
sections of code that the core renderer does not need to know anything about. By
specifying the parameter type, LuxRender can handle new plugins in a uniform
way, allowing developers to realise new features quicker. To reiterate, the
parameter types are:

  * **integer** - a whole number: 1, 2, 3 ...

  * **float** - a number with a decimal point: `[1.67]`, `[2.54]` ...
    *(Note the square brackets given around the values.)*

  * **point** - declares a point, given by three floating point values
    `[45.000 12.000 0.900]`

  * **vector** - a vector, specified the same way as a point.
    `[12.000 3.120 1.100]`

  * **normal** - a normal (unit vector). same as a point.

  * **color** - RGB color [r g b] expressed in decimal notation
    `[0.123 1.0 0.245]`

  * **bool** - boolean `["true"]`, `["false"]`

  * **string** - string, non-escaped, surrounded by quotes `"simple.exr"`,
    `"lux.png"`.

Arrays are created by specifying more than one value inside brackets, separated
by space. So a point or a vector is actually an array of floats. In this
tutorial we will indicate this by using [n] after the type name, where n is the
number of elements required. For example, a valid `float[4]` would be
`[0 1 2 3]`.

Transformations
===============

Any number of transformation can be applied to a section of the scene. Unless
specified each transformation will be concatenated (right multiplied) with the
current transform. To make the transformation "local" it's advisable to enclose
them between "TransformBegin" and "TransformEnd". These two commands define a
block that is then removed when the TransformEnd command is reached. From that
point on, the previously defined, possibly global, transformations will be
restored. For example:

A simple rotation:

    TransformBegin
      Rotate 90 0 1 0
      Shape "cone"
    TransformEnd

A more complex (and realistic) transform:

    Identity
    Translate 5 0 0
    TransformBegin
      # Rotate in addition to translation.
      Rotate 90 0 1 0
      Shape "cone"
    TransformEnd
    # Only the translate transformation is current at this point

One can store the current transformation as a named coordinate system using
"CoordinateSystem". Using this the above example can be written as:

    TransformBegin
      Identity
      Translate 5 0 0
      Rotate 90 0 1 0
      # Store the current transform as "mytransform"
      CoordinateSystem "mytransform"
    TransformEnd

    ...
    # Set the current transformation to "mytransform"
    CoordSysTransform "mytransform"
    Shape "cone"

The following transformation commands are available:

* **Identity**

Replaces the current transformation with the identity transformation.

* **Rotate**

Rotates an entity by a given number of degrees around a given axis. The first
parameter is the rotation in degrees, the following parameters indicate the X, Y
and Z axis.

    Rotate 180 1 0 0

Rotates the object around the X-axis 180Â°. A 0 means to leave the axis
unaffected, a 1 means to rotate on that axis.


* **Scale**

Adjusts the size of an entity by a given factor.

    Scale .1 .2 .3

Scales in the X-direction to 10%, the Y-direction to 20%, and the Z-direction to
30%

* **Translate**

Moves an entity in a given direction by a vector.

    Translate 10.1 20.2 30.3

Moves the center 10.1 units in the X-direction, 20.2 in the Y-direction, and
30.3 in the Z-direction

* **Transform**

Replaces the current transformation with the given transform. It takes a single
16-element array as parameter, each element corresponds to an item in a 4x4
matrix, column by column. The last column, and thus last 4 values, typically
holds the translation part.

    Transform [ 2.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
                0.0  2.0  0.0  0.0
                0.0  0.0  2.0  0.0
               -3.0  2.0 -1.0  1.0]

Replaces the current transform with one that scales the object by 2 and
translates it by -3.0 along the X-direction, 2.0 along the Y-direction and -1.0
along the Z-direction.

*  **ConcatTransform**

Similar to Transform, except concatenates (right multiplies) the given transform with the current transform.

*  **Lookat**

The LookAt transformation takes 3 vectors as parameters. The first vector (0 0 0
in the example) is the position of the camera. The second vector (0 1 0) is the
position of the target of the camera. The last vector (0 0 1) is the up vector.
This is quite a simple transformation, which allows you to specify 2 points, one
where the camera is located and another point of 'interest'.

    LookAt 0 0 0  0 1 0  0 0 1

Orients the entity such that it is located at the origin and looking in the +Y
direction, with +Z as up. The up vector is a unit vector which defines how the
camera is help up, it should point upwards of your camera, eg if it is held
straight, it will be 0 0 1 (+Z up)

* **CoordSysTransform**

Replaces the current transformation by a named transformation defined earlier
using CoordinateSystem.

    CoordSysTransform "mytransform"`

Alternatively you can use a transformation matrix within an Attribute or Object
block:

    Transform [scale_x 0.0 0.0 0.0
               0.0 scale_y 0.0 0.0
               0.0 0.0 scale_z 0.0
               move_x move_y move_z 1.0]

Motion Blur
===========

LuxRender includes a system for motion blur of camera and object transforms.
Multiple steps are supported for both, but deformation motion blur is not
currently supported. It is important to remember that since LuxRender is a
progressive renderer, motion blur is effectively "free" as the trail noise will
normally converge before other elements in the scene. (Thus, there is also no
concept of a "time sample count" or similar)

Motion of an object is handled by having a special transform block that uses the
keywords MotionBegin and MotionEnd instead of TransformEnd and TransformBegin.
Unlike TransformBeginEnd statements, a MotionBegin/End block allows multiple
transforms at different times, and interpolates between them. A block following
the MotionBegin statement (same line) includes the times of each transform
statement to follow. These times are technically unitless, but to maintain
physicality it's best to consider them as being in seconds. Camera motion blur
is handled in the same fashion, using either LookAt or Transform statements as
usual. You can use MotionBegin and MotionEnd statements to define the camera's
position over time, and camera motion blur will be interpreted from this.

The strength of the blur is determined from the shutteropen and shutterclose
parameters for the film. These describe the amount of time the shutter is open
for. Like the timings for transform steps described in the previous paragraph,
these are technically unitless but should generally be considered as being in
seconds.

It is important to note that shutterclose timings are independent of the motion
step time. This allows LuxRender to simulate the real-world scenario of the
shutter being open for only a portion of the frame. In general, the first step
in your motion definition should be set to 0.0, the beginning of the frame. The
last step in the motion definition should always be 1 divided by the current
frame rate. For example, if the current animation frame rate is 24fps, you
should have the first step at 0.0, the final step at 0.04167 (1 divided by 24),
and any addition steps at even intervals between them. Since most 3D packages
allow arbitrary frame rates, it is important that you divide by the actual scene
frame rate value rather than using a fixed time for a set of common frame rates.
See your 3D application's documentation on animation export and frame rates.

Taking the example from the Transform section, here we use two motion steps to
rotate our cone over a 24fps frame. For objects being translated in a curved
path, you will need at 3 transform statements for a curved trail. Think of this
as subdividing the motion trail.

    MotionBegin [0.0, 0.04167]
      Rotate 90 0 1 0
      Rotate 180 0 1 0

      Shape "cone"
    MotionEnd

As a final note, the values for shutteropen/shutterclose act as an arbitrary
scaling factor on motion blur. Normally you want to use 0.0 for shutteropen and
set shutterclose to a reasonable exposure time, such as 1/30th of a second
(0.033), or 1/100th of a second (0.01) to mimic the normal timings of a camera.
The scale is calibrated to match real world motion blur when used in this way.
If you would like to add a non-physical "blur scale" you can apply it simply by
multiplying the shutterclose value by the scaling value. (Note: there is also no
requirement that the linear tonemapper's exposure value match shutterclose,
although to fully simulate a real digital camera, you should use matching
values).

Attributes
==========

-   **WorldBegin**

The `WorldBegin` attribute indicates the end of the global information and the
beginning of the scene specific information.

-   **WorldEnd**

The `WorldEnd` attribute indicates the end of the scene specific information and
marks the end of the file (if no comments follow). Upon reaching the `WorldEnd`
statement, LuxRender will assume the scene description is complete and will
begin rendering.

-   **AttributeBegin**

The `AttributeBegin` attribute indicates the beginning of the description of an
unnamed object. In case the object needs to be referenced (for example by
instances), use `ObjectBegin` instead.

-   **AttributeEnd**

`AttributeEnd` marks the end of the description of an unnamed object.

-   **TransformBegin**

Indicates the beginning of a named coordinate system. Usually within this block
you will write `Identity`, `Transform`, and `CoordinateSystem`. `Identity` is
used to reset the coordinate system to zero, the `Transform` defines the
transform of the coordinate-system you wish to name, and `CoordinateSystem`
followed by a string names the transform defined in this block.

-   **TransformEnd**

`TransformEnd` marks the end of a named coordinate system.

-   **ObjectBegin**

The `ObjectBegin` attribute indicates the beginning of the description of a
named object, which is useful for creating instances. It must be followed by a
string, indicating the name of the object.

-   **ObjectEnd**

`ObjectEnd` marks the end of the description of a named object.

-   **ObjectInstance**

If a named object is created, it can be referenced in multiple objects. These
objects can be ordinary unnamed objects that use an `ObjectInstance` line
instead of a shape definition. It must be followed by a string with the name of
the object to instance.

-   **MotionBegin**

`MotionBegin` defines the start of a block of animated transforms, and includes
the times of each transform to follow. See the Motion Blur section above.

-   **MotionEnd**

`MotionEnd` marks the end of a block of animated transforms.

-   **PortalInstance**

Works in a similar manner to ObjectInstance but is a substitute for PortalShape.
This allows instancing of portal geometry.


Using the attributes
--------------------

To give an idea on some more complex uses of these statements, here's an example a motion blurred light with nested instances.

    # Define a named light object. It is not yet included in the scene.
    ObjectBegin "test"
      LightSource "point" "point from" [0 0 0]
    ObjectEnd

    # Define a named compound object comprising a sphere and a reference to
    # the previous light. They are not yet included in the scene.
    ObjectBegin "test2"
      Shape "sphere"
      ObjectInstance "test"
    ObjectEnd

    # Add an instance of the compound in the scene.
    ObjectInstance "test2"

    # Add a moving instance of the light in the scene.
    MotionBegin [0 0.04167]
      Identity
      Translate 1 0 0
    MotionEnd

    ObjectInstance "test"

Identifiers
===========

The following identifiers can be included in the scene:

-   Camera
-   Sampler
-   Film
-   PixelFilter
-   Shape
-   Accelerator
-   Material
-   Texture
-   Volume
-   Light
-   SurfaceIntegrator
-   VolumeIntegrator

Each of these shall be covered in turn.

Camera
------

The following camera types are available. Each of them is a plugin. The default camera type is 'perspective'.

-   **perspective** (default)

The most common camera, resemble most closely what is seen by the human eye or a pinhole camera.

-   **environment**

Denotes a type of camera which maps the whole of the environment around the camera to an image.

-   **orthographic**

The standard orthographic camera: parallel lines stay parallel and a sense of depth is lost.

-   **realistic**

A physically-based camera model that loads lens descriptions files to realistically generate camera rays and weights.

### Common Camera Parameters

There are parameters specific to a particular camera implementation and general parameters for all cameras. Here are the common parameters:

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  name               type       description                                                                                                                                                                          default value                    theoretical range                                              suggested range
  ------------------ ---------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------
  hither             float      Geometry closer than this distance will not be rendered                                                                                                                              10\^{-3}                         0 - âˆž                                                          0 - 10 000

  yon                float      Geometry further than this distance will not be rendered                                                                                                                             10\^{30}                         0 - âˆž                                                          0 - 10 000 (always bigger than hither)

  shutteropen        float      The time in seconds at which the virtual shutter opens                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                             0

  shutterclose       float      The time in seconds at which the virtual shutter closes                                                                                                                              1.0                                                                                             0.001 - 1, larger (1-60 or more) for "long exposure" blur

  lensradius         float      Default (0) for pinhole camera with whole scene in focus, increase for depth of field and focus effects. Ignored by environment and realistic cameras                                0.0                              0 - âˆž                                                          0 - 1

  focaldistance      float      Focal distance of the virtual lens. Use the control focus in depth of field effects. Ignored by environment and realistic cameras                                                    10\^{30}                         0 - âˆž                                                          0 - 10 000

  frameaspectratio   float      This is normally computed from resolution but can be overridden here. Ignored by realistic camera                                                                                    computed from given resolution   0 - âˆž                                                          1 - 10

  screenwindow       float[4]   Specifies area in camera that the virtual film occupies - the bounds in screen space. Crops the camera viewport. (*Ignored by realistic camera.*) Values are: xmin xmax ymin ymax.   entire screen space              dependent on frame aspect ratio (xresolution/yresolution): \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      If aspect\_ratio \> 1: -aspect\_ratio aspect\_ratio -1 1\
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Otherwise: -1 1 -1/aspect\_ratio 1/aspect\_ratio
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Specific Camera Parameters

'environment' cameras do \*not\* support depth of field parameters lensradius and focaldistance as indicated above. 'realistic' cameras don't support lensradius, focaldistance, frameaspectratio and screenwindow either. The orthographic camera supports the above parameters, but has no others. However, the 'perspective' and 'realistic' cameras do have some specific parameters:

#### perspective

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  name            type      description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    default value   theoretical range   suggested range
  --------------- --------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------- ------------------- -----------------
  fov             float     This is the field of view for the camera - this specifies the solid angle viewed. The fov value is the angle spanned by the **smallest** dimension of the image (width/height). An fov of 49.13 is equal to a focal length of 35mm.            90              0 < x < 180         1 - 179

  lensradius      float     This value defines the lens radius. Values higher than 0 enable DOF and control its amount. To calculate the lensradius based on the f/stop number use the following equation.\                                                                0.00625         x â‰¥ 0               0 - 0.4
                             lensradius = (focallength\_in\_mm / 1000.0) / ( 2.0 \* fstop )\
                            \
                             Example: 0.00625 = (35 / 1 000.0) / (2.0 \* 2.8)

  autofocus       bool      Enable/disable the autofocus feature. It is useful to automatically calculate the focal distance when lens radius \> 0.0 (i.e. depth of field enabled).                                                                                        false

  focaldistance   float     This value controls the focal point of the scene, the distance from the camera at which objects will be in focus. It has no effect if the Lens Radius is set to 0. It is specified in meters. This value is not needed when using autofocus.   0.0             0 < x               0 - 200

  blades          integer   This value controls the number of blade edges of the aperture, values 0 to 2 defaults to a circle.                                                                                                                                             6

  distribution    string    This value controls the lens sampling distribution. Non-uniform distributions allow for ring effects. Valid values include: "uniform", "exponential", "inverse exponential", "gaussian", and "inverse gaussian".                               uniform

  power           integer   This value controls the exponent for the expression in exponential distribution. Higher values gives a more pronounced ring effect.                                                                                                            1
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#### realistic

This camera type is not currently functional and should thus not be present in the user interface.

  name                 type     description                                                                              default value
  -------------------- -------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------
  specfile             string   The .dat lens specification file which can be found in the cameras/realistic directory   ""
  filmdistance         float    Distance from the film to the backmost lens component (milimeters)                       70.0
  aperture\_diameter   float    The aperture diameter of the aperture stop                                               1.0
  filmdiag             float    Film diagonal size                                                                       35.0

Sampler
-------

Here are the sampler types. Each one is a separate plugin.

-   **metropolis**

Generates random values that are then slightly mutated, according to the Metropolis algorithm. In most cases, this sampler should be used by default.

-   **sobol**

Progressive quasi-random sampler, uses a sobol sequence. Based on the sobol sampler in Blender Cycles. This sampler gives good results on simple scenes.

-   **random** (default)

Completely random sampler. Set to default as a fallback, not production-useful in most cases.

-   **lowdiscrepancy**

Generates a low discrepancy sequence that evenly samples values, given a target number of samples per pixel (must be a power of 2). In most cases, the sobol sampler will yeild better results due to its progressive sample stratification.

-   **erpt**

Similar to the Metropolis sampler but the *Energy Redistribution Path Tracing* algorithm is used. This sampler is largely a failed science experiment and shouldn't be used.

### Noise-aware sampling

All samplers (except for ERPT) support an option for noise-aware adaptive sampling. If this mode is enabled, LuxRender will create a "heat map" of the areas of the image it believes are not fully converged. These areas will become more likely to be sampled.

In addition to this, there is an option for loading a user-supplied sampling map as well. If this option and noise-aware are both used, the sampling weights will be combined.

#### Parameters

  name         type   description                                default value   theoretical range   suggested range
  ------------ ------ ------------------------------------------ --------------- ------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  noiseaware   bool   Enables or disables the noise-aware mode   False           False               True, unless using bidirectional integrator, where it is not always helpful

### Sampler Parameters

These samplers accept the parameters below. Valid values for *pixelsampler* are *hilbert* (since v0.6), *linear*, *vegas*, *lowdiscrepancy*, *tile* (or alias *grid*), and *random*. "tile", "linear" and "hilbert" modes offer slightly better performance due to cache coherency, but obviously lack the quick feedback of seeing the whole image at once.

#### metropolis

  name                type      description                                                                                           default value                                       theoretical range   recommended range
  ------------------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------- ------------------- -------------------
  maxconsecrejects    integer   Number of consecutive rejects before a next mutation is forced. Low values can cause bias             512                                                 x â‰¥ 0               0 - 32768
  largemutationprob   float     Probability of generating a large sample mutation                                                     0.4                                                 0 â‰¤ x â‰¤ 1           0 - 1
  mutationrange       float     Maximum distance in pixel for a small mutation                                                        \\frac{(render\_{width} + render\_{height})}{32.}
  usevariance         bool      Use the variance hint provided by some integrators to alter sample acceptance                         false
  usecooldown         bool      Ramp the largemutationprob from 0.5 to the provided value during the first few seconds of rendering   false

#### sobol

The sobol sampler has no parameters of its own, just the noise-aware options

#### random

  name           type      description                                                                                              default value   theoretical range   suggested range
  -------------- --------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------- ------------------- -----------------
  pixelsamples   integer   Number of samples per pixel / pass                                                                       4               x â‰¥ 1               1 - 512
  pixelsampler   string    Pixel sampler algorithm to use: hilbert, linear, vegas, lowdiscrepancy, tile (or alias grid) or random   vegas

#### lowdiscrepancy

  name           type      description                                                                                              default value   theoretical range   suggested range
  -------------- --------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------- ------------------- -----------------
  pixelsamples   integer   Number of samples per pixel / pass                                                                       4               x â‰¥ 1               1 - 512
  pixelsampler   string    Pixel sampler algorithm to use: hilbert, linear, vegas, lowdiscrepancy, tile (or alias grid) or random   vegas

#### erpt

Note: The ERPT sampler is largely a failed science experiment and probably shouldn't be used.

  name            type      description                                      default value                                       theoretical range   recommended range
  --------------- --------- ------------------------------------------------ --------------------------------------------------- ------------------- -------------------
  initsamples     integer   Number of warm-up samples                        100000
  chainlength     integer   Number of mutations from a given seed            2000                                                x â‰¥ 1               1 - 32768
  mutationrange   float     Maximum distance in pixel for a small mutation   \\frac{(render\_{width} + render\_{height})}{50.}

Film
----

There is currently only one film type:

-   **fleximage** (default)

A flexible film, being able to output several buffers, with some image normalization options.

### Specific Film Parameters

#### fleximage

  name                                  type       description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       default value                                theoretical range        recommended range
  ------------------------------------- ---------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------- ------------------------ -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  xresolution                           integer    The number of pixels in the xdirection                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            800                                          x â‰¥ 1                    1 - 10000
  yresolution                           integer    The number of pixels in the ydirection                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            600                                          x â‰¥ 1                    1 - 10000
  cropwindow                            float[4]   Values describing render region that range from min (0) to max (1) in order xmin, xmax, ymin,ymax. (0,0) is top left                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (0,1,0,1)                                    all values: 0 â‰¤ x â‰¤ 1
  gamma                                 float      Gamma correction value                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.2                                          x â‰¥ 0                    2.2, or your monitor gamma if it's not 2.2. Other values will lead to a non-physical response of light gain (non-linear workflow)
  premultiplyalpha                      bool       Multiplies the pixel colours by the pixel's alpha value before writing the image. Used to encode alpha in images without an alpha channel                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         false
  colorspace\_red                       float[2]   The xy chromaticity coordinates of the red primary in the target color space. Used for low dynamic range output (and OpenEXR if write\_exr\_applyimaging is enabled). Default color space is SMPTE.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               [0.63 0.34]
  colorspace\_green                     float[2]   Same as colorspace\_red but for the green primary.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                [0.31 0.595]                                 both values: 0 â‰¤ x â‰¤ 1   both values: 0 â‰¤ x â‰¤ 1
  colorspace\_blue                      float[2]   Same as colorspace\_red but for the blue primary.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 [0.155 0.07] both values: 0 â‰¤ x â‰¤ 1          both values: 0 â‰¤ x â‰¤ 1
  colorspace\_white                     float[2]   Same as colorspace\_red but for the white point.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  [0.314275 0.329411] both values: 0 â‰¤ x â‰¤ 1   both values: 0 â‰¤ x â‰¤ 1
  write\_exr                            bool       Toggles the .exr (OpenEXR) output                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 false
  write\_exr\_channels                  string     Which channels to write for OpenEXR output. Valid values are "RGB", "RGBA", "Y" and "YA". "RGBA" is RGB with alpha, "Y" is luminosity, and "YA" is luminosity with alpha.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         "RGB"
  write\_exr\_halftype                  bool       Indicates if the half-float (16bit) type should be used for OpenEXR output.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       true
  write\_exr\_compressiontype           string     Which compression scheme to use for OpenEXR output. Valid values are "RLE (lossless)", "PIZ (lossless)", "ZIP (lossless)", "Pxr24 (lossy)" and "None".                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            "PIZ (lossless)"
  write\_exr\_applyimaging              bool       Specifies if the imaging pipeline (for tone mapping, bloom etc) should be used for OpenEXR output. Use "false" to get the raw HDR output. Image will be in linear gamma regardless of this setting or the gamma setting.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          "true"
  write\_exr\_gamutclamp                bool       Specifies if out-of-gamut colors should be clamped for OpenEXR output.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            "true"
  write\_exr\_ZBuf                      bool       Specifies if the Z-Buffer should be used for OpenEXR output. Will be added as a separate channel in the OpenEXR file.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             "false"
  write\_exr\_zbuf\_normalizationtype   string     Specifies which normalization, if any, is applied to the Z-Buffer before being added to the OpenEXR file. Valid values are "Camera Start/End clip", "Min/Max" and "None".                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         "None"
  write\_png                            bool       Toggles the .png low dynamic range tonemapped output.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             true
  write\_png\_channels                  string     Same as write\_exr\_channels, but for PNG output.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 "RGB"
  write\_png\_16bit                     bool       Toggles 16 bit per channel PNG output.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            false
  write\_png\_gamutclamp                bool       Toggles clamping of out-of-gamut colors for PNG output.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           true
  write\_tga                            bool       Toggles the .tga low dynamic range tonemapped output                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              false
  write\_tga\_channels                  string     Same as write\_exr\_channels, but for TGA output.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 "RGB"
  write\_tga\_gamutclamp                bool       Toggles clamping of out-of-gamut colors for TGA output.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           true
  write\_tga\_zbuf\_normalization       string     TBD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N/A
  ldr\_clamp\_method                    string     Method used to clamp out-of-gammut colors after tonemapping. Valid values are "lum", "hue" and "cut". First two tries to preserve luminosity and hue, respectively, of the color. "cut" will simply clip large values.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            "cut"
  write\_resume\_flm                    bool       Toggles the rendering resume output. Luxrender will auto-resume a rendering if the resume file exists. (**NOTE1:** the resume feature doesn't include any sanity check, do not forget to erase the file if you are starting a new rendering or you have modified the scene description. **NOTE2:** the resume file is usually read between 10-30 secs after the start of the rendering. **NOTE3:** this feature works well only with progrsive pixel samplers.)   false
  restart\_resume\_flm                  bool       Disables starting from an existing flm file, whilst still writing a new one if above param is true.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               false
  filename                              string     The suffix used for all file output                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               "luxout"
  writeinterval                         integer    The interval in seconds between all image writes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  60                                           x â‰¥ 1                    60 - 36000
  flmwriteinterval                      integer    The interval in seconds between flm file writes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   60                                           x â‰¥ 1                    60 - 36000
  displayinterval                       integer    The interval in seconds between display updates                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   12                                           x â‰¥ 1                    10 - 36000
  outlierrejection\_k                   integer    Strength value for the firefly rejection feature. 0 = disabled                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0                                            x â‰¥ 0                    3-10
  tilecount                             integer    Number of film buffer tiles to use. 0 = automatic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0                                            x â‰¥ 0                    0
  haltspp                               integer    Stop the rendering when the average number of samples per pixel is higher or equal to the chosen value. The rendering will stop at the next valid Sampler/PixelSampler state in order to not introduce bias (i.e. few more samples can be required to reach that state). A value less or equal to 0 disables this option.                                                                                                                                         0                                            x â‰¥ 0                    0 - 50000
  halttime                              integer    Stop the rendering when the time elapsed from the start is higher or equal to the chosen value (defined in seconds). The rendering will stop at the next valid Sampler/PixelSampler state in order to not introduce bias (i.e. few more samples can be required to reach that state). A value less or equal to 0 disables this option.                                                                                                                            0                                            x â‰¥ 0                    0 - 86400
  haltthreshold                         float      Adaptive-quality rendering option. Stops the rendering when the number of pixels failing the perceptual convergence test falls below this value. A value of 0 disables this option. Enabled noise-aware in the sampler block to automatically focus-fire the failing pixels.                                                                                                                                                                                      0                                            x < 1                    0.01 - 0.0000001
  convergencestep                       float      Interval (in samples per pixel) that the convergence test updates. This test is used to supply quality data for the haltthreshold option and noise-aware sampling.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                32                                           x â‰¥ 4                    8 - 128
  tonemapkernel                         string     The tone mapping kernel used for low dynamic range output (and OpenEXR if write\_exr\_applyimaging is enabled). Valid values are "reinhard", "linear", "autolinear", "contrast" and "maxwhite".                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   "autolinear"

### Tonemapper Parameters

Fleximage accepts the following parameters for the various tone mapping kernels:

#### reinhard

  name                  type    description                        default value   theoretical range   recommended range
  --------------------- ------- ---------------------------------- --------------- ------------------- -------------------
  reinhard\_prescale    float   Defines the amount of pre-scale    1.0             x â‰¥ 0               0 - 8
  reinhard\_postscale   float   Defines the amount of post-scale   1.0             x â‰¥ 0               0 - 8
  reinhard\_burn        float   Defines the amount of burn         6.0             x â‰¥ 0               0 - 8

#### linear

  name                  type    description                                                                     default value   theoretical range   recommended range
  --------------------- ------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------- ------------------- -------------------
  linear\_sensitivity   float   Sensitivity of the film (in ISO).                                               50.0            x â‰¥ 0               6 - 6400
  linear\_exposure      float   Exposure time of the film in seconds (currently not tied to shutter opening).   1.0             x \> 0              0.0005 - 60
  linear\_fstop         float   F-stop value.                                                                   2.8             x â‰¥ 0               0.7 - 96
  linear\_gamma         float   Gamma value (separate from the FlexImageFilm's gamma parameter).                1.0             x â‰¥ 0               0 - 5

#### contrast

  name            type    description                                           default value   theoretical value   recommended value
  --------------- ------- ----------------------------------------------------- --------------- ------------------- -------------------
  contrast\_ywa   float   Ywa parameter for the contrast tone mapping kernel.   1.0             x \> 0              0 - 20000

#### maxwhite

The maxwhite kernel has no parameters.

#### autolinear

The autolinear kernel has no parameters

Filter
------

Here are the pixel filter types. Each one is a separate plugin:

-   **blackmanharris**
-   **box**
-   **catmullrom**
-   **triangle**
-   **gaussian**
-   **mitchell** (default)
-   **sinc**

### Filter Parameters

#### blackmanharris

  name     type    description                               default value   theoretical range   recommended value
  -------- ------- ----------------------------------------- --------------- ------------------- -------------------
  xwidth   float   Radius of the filter in the x direction   1.65?           x \> 0              3.3 / 1.65?
  ywidth   float   Radius of the filter in the y direction   1.65?           x \> 0              3.3 / 1.65?

#### box

  name     type    description                                               default value   theoretical range   recommended range
  -------- ------- --------------------------------------------------------- --------------- ------------------- -------------------
  xwidth   float   Half-width (or radius) of the filter in the x direction   0.5             x \> 0              0.1 - 2
  ywidth   float   Half-width (or radius) of the filter in the y direction   0.5             x \> 0              0.1 - 2

#### catmullrom

  name     type    description                               default value   theoretical range   recommended value
  -------- ------- ----------------------------------------- --------------- ------------------- -------------------
  xwidth   float   Radius of the filter in the x direction   ?               x \> 0              ?
  ywidth   float   Radius of the filter in the y direction   ?               x \> 0              ?

#### gaussian

  name     type    description                                                    default value   theoretical range   recommended range
  -------- ------- -------------------------------------------------------------- --------------- ------------------- -------------------
  xwidth   float   Half-width (or radius) of the filter in the x direction        2               x \> 0              0.1 - 2
  ywidth   float   Half-width (or radius) of the filter in the y direction        2               x \> 0              0.1 - 2
  alpha    float   Gaussian rate of falloff. Lower values give blurrier images.   2               x \> 0              0 - 10

#### mitchell

  name          type    description                                                                                      default value   theoretical range   recommended range
  ------------- ------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------- ------------------- ----------------------------------------
  xwidth        float   Half-width (or radius) of the filter in the x direction                                          2               x \> 0              0.1 - 3
  ywidth        float   Half-width (or radius) of the filter in the y direction                                          2               x \> 0              0.1 - 3
  B             float   B parameter for the mitchell filter in the range                                                 1/3             0 â‰¤ x â‰¤ 1           0 - 1
  C             float   C parameter for the mitchell filter in the range 0..1.                                           1/3             0 â‰¤ x â‰¤ 1           0 - 1
  supersample   bool    Use filter sumpersampling, image will be filtered first with a grid of 4 pixels for each pixel   True                                Don't turn this off. Seriously, don't.

#### sinc

  name     type    description                                                                       default value   theoretical range   recommended range
  -------- ------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------- ------------------- -------------------
  xwidth   float   Half-width (or radius) of the filter in the x direction                           4               x \> 0              0.1 - 5
  ywidth   float   Half-width (or radius) of the filter in the y direction                           4               x \> 0              0.1 - 5
  tau      float   Width of the filter window. Should not be larger than the radius of the filter.   3               x \> 0              0.1 - 5

#### triangle

  name     type    description                                               default value   theoretical range   recommended range
  -------- ------- --------------------------------------------------------- --------------- ------------------- -------------------
  xwidth   float   Half-width (or radius) of the filter in the x direction   2               x \> 0              0.1 - 2
  ywidth   float   Half-width (or radius) of the filter in the y direction   2               x \> 0              0.1 - 2

Renderer
--------

The Renderer is a sort of wrapper for the surface integrator. It is used to switch between possible operating modes of LuxRender. The following renderers are available

-   **sampler**
-   **hybrid**
-   **sppm**

The "classic" LuxRender rendering modes are all contained within the the "sampler" renderer. There are two other available renderers, "hybrid" or "hybridsampler" (both call the same renderer), and "sppm". Hybrid is a GPU-accelerated renderer, that offloads ray-triangle intersections to OpenCL compute devices. SPPM is an experimental implementation of stochastic progressive photon mapping.

"Sampler" and "sppm" have no parameters of their own, all parameters are taken from the surface integrator. "Hybrid" has several parameters dealing with GPU options:

  name                             type      description                                                                                                                                                             default value   theoretical range   recommended range
  -------------------------------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------- ------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  configfile                       string    Path to a configuration file containing Renderer settings. This file should have the same format as used by SLG, and reads only the parameters defined in this table.
  opencl.platform.index            integer   The OpenCL platform index to use for rendering.                                                                                                                         0               x â‰¥ 0               The "correct" platform is most likely platform 0 or 1, but it may not be
  opencl.gpu.use                   bool      Tell the renderer to use the OpenCL GPU devices. Otherwise, native threads are used.                                                                                    True                                True
  opencl.gpu.workgroup.size        integer   Set the work-group size for the OpenCL GPU. The default (0) will attempt to automatically detect the correct size.                                                      0                                   0 is automatic, but some cards will require this be set manually to 64
  opencl.devices.select            string    List of OpenCL devices to use. Default is to target all available GPU devices unless this parameter specifices otherwise.                                                                                   Generally, it's best to leave this blank unless the user has a specific rendering card.
  statebuffercount                 integer   Number of buffers the renderer will use to prepare rays for the GPU. Higher values can improve efficiency but may significantly increase memory use                     1               x \> 0              1 or 2
  raybuffersize                    integer   Number of rays per buffer fed to the GPU                                                                                                                                8192            x â‰¥ 2               4096-16384, must be a power of 2
  accelerator.qbvh.stacksize.max   integer   Max stack depth for the GPU QBVH (different from scene accelerator)                                                                                                     32              x \> 0              24 or 32, 32 is faster, but not all cards can handle it

Surface Integrator
------------------

The surface integrator is responsible for actually propagating the ray through the scene. The following types are available:

-   **bidirectional (default)**
-   **path**
-   **exphotonmap**
-   **directlighting**
-   **igi**
-   **distributedpath**
-   **sppm**

### Common Parameters

The following parameter is common to all integrators except for SPPM

  name             type      description                                                                                                                                                                  default value   theoretical range                                                                                                     recommended range
  ---------------- --------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------
  lightstrategy    string    Light sampling method. See [LuxRender\_Render\_settings](/LuxRender_Render_settings#Light_Strategy "LuxRender_Render_settings")                                              auto            Values strings are "auto", "one", "all", "importance", "powerimp", "allpowerimp", "autopowerimp", and "logpowerimp"   "auto" or "autopowerimp". Hybrid bidir can only use "one"
  shadowraycount   integer   Specifies the number of shadow rays traced at each intersection for each sampled light. Supported by the following surface integrators: directlighting, exphotonmap, path.   1

### Specific Surface Integrator Parameters

#### Bidirectional

Bidirectional path tracer. Available with hybridsampler or sampler. This should be the default integrator. NOTE: Light strategy parameter (see common parameters) must be declared as "one" when used with hybridsampler

  name                type      description                                                                                                                                            default value   theoretical range                                                                                     recommended range
  ------------------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  lightdepth          integer   Maximum recursion depth of a light path                                                                                                                8               x \> 0                                                                                                Values below 2 can give very strange results, avoid using higher values (16+) with hybrid renderer
  eyedepth            integer   Maximum recursion depth of an eye path                                                                                                                 8               x \> 0                                                                                                Values below 2 can give very strange results, avoid using higher values (16+) with hybrid renderer
  lightrrthreshold    float     Light-path russian roulette control. 0.0 uses standard efficiency-based RR, 1.0 disables RR entirely. Values in-between are a combination of the two   0.0             x â‰¥ 0                                                                                                 Values other than 0.0 are only useful in certain situations
  eyerrthreshold      float     Eye-path russian roulette control. 0.0 uses standard efficiency-based RR, 1.0 disables RR entirely. Values in-between are a combination of the two     0.0             x â‰¥ 0                                                                                                 Values other than 0.0 are only useful in certain situations
  lightpathstrategy   string    The strategy used for sampling the lights when tracing light paths (same than what lightstrategy does for direct lighting)                             "auto"          Values strings are "auto", "one", "all", "importance", "powerimp", "allpowerimp", and "logpowerimp"

#### Path

Classic path tracing integrator. Available with sampler or hybridsampler.

  name                  type      description                                                                                                                                default value   theoretical range   recommended range
  --------------------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------- ------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  maxdepth              integer   Maximum recursion depth of a path                                                                                                          16              x \> 0              Maxdepth=1 is identical to the direct lighting integrator, values of 2 or greater should be used.
  rrstrategy            string    Defines the russian roulette strategy used. Can be "none, "probability", or "efficiency".                                                  efficiency                          Efficiency normally gives the best results
  includeenvironment    bool      Show environment light sources.                                                                                                            True
  directlightsampling   float     Use direct light sampling to help find lights. Disable for "brute force" path tracing (can be faster with only environment map lighting)   True

#### Direct

Classic Whitted raytracer, available only in the sampler renderer. Calculates direct lighting only, and is mainly useful for previews (such as seeing how your textures look in the actual scene). This integrator has no ability to calculate or fake indirect lighting, and thus is not terribly useful for most final renders.

  name         type      description                                                                                 default value   theoretical range   recommended range
  ------------ --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------- ------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  maxdepth     integer   Maximum recursion depth of a path                                                           16              x \> 0              3-5 is often enough, but there is little speed penalty for going higher, as this integrator does not continue diffuse paths. Extra bounces are for specular/transmissive surfaces.
  rrstrategy   string    Defines the russian roulette strategy used. Can be "none, "probability", or "efficiency".   efficiency                          Efficiency normally gives the best results

#### SPPM

Experimental stochastic progressive photon mapping integrator. Only available with the sppm renderer. It renders the image using a series of passes. In the first half of each pass, it runs a direct-light render and stores the diffuse-surface hit points in a map. In the second half of the pass, photons are traced from the lights, and any that fall into a hitpoint are considered to have illuminated that hit point. The process is then repeated using a smaller hit point search radius.

  name                       type      description                                                                                                                              default value      theoretical range                                                       recommended range
  -------------------------- --------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  photonsampler              string    The sampler used to trace photons.                                                                                                       "halton"           "halton" (standard quasi random sampler) and "amc" (adaptive sampler)   "halton"
  lookupaccel                string    The data structure used to store hit points.                                                                                             "hybridhashgrid"   "hashgrid", "kdtree", "hybridhashgrid" and "parallelhashgrid"           "hybridhashgrid"
  parallelhashgridspare      float     Only used for parallelhashgrid                                                                                                           1
  pixelsampler               string    The scheme used to sample the image plane. Possible strings are "hilbert", "liner", "tile" and "vegas"                                   "hilbert"
  maxeyedepth                integer   Maximum recursion depth of an eye path                                                                                                   16                 x \> 0                                                                  3-5 is often enough, but there is little speed penalty for going higher, as this integrator does not continue diffuse paths. Extra bounces are for specular/transmissive surfaces.
  maxphotondepth             integer   Maximum recursion depth of a photon path                                                                                                 16                 x \> 0                                                                  16-64
  photonperpass              integer   Number of photons to gather before moving on to the next pass                                                                            1000000            x \> 0                                                                  250000-5000000
  startradius                float     Search radius uses during the first pass                                                                                                 2.0                x \> 0                                                                  \~.5-5
  alpha                      float     Scaling factor to tighten search radius by on passes after the first. 1.0 will defeat the radius reduction effect                        0.7                x \> 0                                                                  0.5-1.0
  includeenvironment         bool      Include the light from the environment when it is directly visible                                                                       true
  directlightsampling        bool      Do a direct lighting pass instead of relying only on photons                                                                             true
  useproba                   bool      Use the radius reduction behavior from "PPM: a probabilistic approach". Due to the reduced hitpoint size this may improve performance.   true
  wavelengthstratification   integer   The number of initial passes with special wavelength sampling in order to reduce color artifacts                                         8                  \> 0                                                                    8
  debug                      bool      Debug mode                                                                                                                               false
  storeglossy                bool      Allow storing of hit points on glossy surfaces, it might help rendering or ruin the render depending on the scene                        false

Volume Integrator
-----------------

The volume integrator is responsible for adding volumetric effects to the result computed by the surface integrator. The following types are available:

-   **None**

A sham integrator which disables volumetric scattering entirely. Can improve performance by avoiding any calculations for unspecified volumes (which are thus a vacuum with no effect on the scene)

-   **Emission**

Calculates absorption, as well as light emission from the (largely deprecated) PBRT volumes. Scattering will be ignored

-   **Single**

Calculates a single bounce of scattering, as well as all effects for the emission integrator

-   **Multi**

Calculates all volumetric effects. Rays passing through a homogeneous medium will be allowed to scatter repeatedly until they exit the volume or are terminated by the surface integrator.

### Common Parameters

The following parameter is common to all volume integrators. There are no integrator specific parameters.

  name       type    description                                                                                                                                                   default value   theoretical range   recommended range
  ---------- ------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------- ------------------- -------------------
  stepsize   float   Ray marching step length, in meters. This parameter is only used for the old volumes, as the medium system does not currently support heterogeneous volumes   1.0             x \> 0.0            0.1-2

Scene specific information
==========================

Geometry, materials, textures - these obviously affect the final image but have no bearing on how the scene is to be rendered. This data is given between the WorldBegin and WorldEnd statements after the global information. More on these statements and the 'Attribute' statements a little later.

The distinction between the global information and the scene specific information is not arbitrary. LuxRender processes and "locks" global information first before looking at scene specific information. This implementation would allow for view-optimized tesselation of geometry, for instance.

In addition to the identifiers described above in the Transformations section and the Attributes section the following identifiers can be included in the scene:

-   AreaLightSource
-   LightSource
-   LightGroup
-   Shape
-   PortalShape

-   Material
-   MakeNamedMaterial
-   NamedMaterial

-   Texture

-   MakeNamedVolume
-   Interior
-   Exterior

Each of these shall be covered in turn.

A Word on Colors and Gamma
--------------------------

In LuxRender, colors are always described as linear RGB floats. For example, [0.80000001 0.80000001 0.80000001]

Some 3D applications will give a linear RGB float color when queried for the value of a color, but others may not. If they do give a linear RGB float triplet, you can simply write it to the scene file as-is, your app and LuxRender "speak the same language" for colors. However, this may not be the case. You might instead receive a 8bit integer triplet, such as [255, 255, 255]. This can be converted to the equivalent float by dividing by 255.

However, this might not give the color the user thought they were inputting. Some applications will return color queries with a value that already has gamma correction applied. Returning integer colors and gamma corrected colors often goes hand-in-hand. If an app returns a float, there is a good chance it is linear gamma. If it returns an integer, it is probably NOT linear gamma. Neither is guaranteed, however, and you should check any relevant api documentation for the application you are working with. If your application returns values with gamma correction applied to them, you should apply reverse gamma correction prior to writing them to scene file, in order to ensure that linear values are written out.

As a physically based renderer, linear workflow is fairly important for LuxRender, and is strongly enforced. All color inputs are assumed to be linear. Image textures are assumed to not be linear and have reverse gamma correction applied to them (the gamma parameter on the image map texture sets this, it should be set to the gamma the texture was created in for color textures, but left at 1.0 for float textures). The film is saved in linear XYZ color space, and gamma corrected for viewport display or when saving PNG or TGA output (this is done according the film gamma setting). The OpenEXR output is NOT gamma corrected, as the OpenEXR spec states that these files should always be linear gamma. The write\_exr\_applyimaging flag does NOT affect this behavior, it causes everything except gamma correction and clamping to be applied.

Light
-----

General Syntax:

> ` LightSource TYPE <parameters> </code></blockquote>  Where TYPE in one of the following:  *'''distant''' *'''goniometric''' *'''infinite''' *'''point''' *'''projection''' *'''sky''' *'''sky2''' *'''spot''' *'''sun'''  For area lights the syntax is slightly different:  <blockquote><code> AreaLightSource "area" <parameters> </code></blockquote>  There is no default type.  Note that the '''area''' type should be within a normal shape definition, which defines the shape of the light.  For convenience, it's possible to specify the '''sunsky2''' light which automatically creates a '''sun''' and '''sky2''' light with the same parameters. Generally, it's best to have your 3D package's distant/sun/environment lamp translate to the '''sunsky2''' light by default.  The '''sky''' and '''sunsky''' light types are legacy lights that use a outdated spectrum model (the Preetham model instead of the Hosek and Wilkie model used by sky2/sunsky2). This light should probably not be exposed in the UI, or at least not the default.  The point and spot lamps are non-physical, and generally do not give good results in most cases.  ===Examples=== Here are some examples of light declarations:  {|class="wikitable"  cellpadding="3" ! style="border-bottom: 1px solid white;" | Type ! style="border-bottom: 1px solid white;" | Code |- valign="top" | Point || <code>Texture "pL" "color" "blackbody" "float temperature" [6500.0]<br />LightSource "point" "texture L" ["pL"] "float gain" [1.0] </code> |- valign="top" | Spot || <code>Texture "Spots::L" "color" "blackbody" "float temperature" [3200.00]<br />LightSource "spot" "point from" [0 0 0] "point to" [0 0 -1] "float coneangle" [70] "float conedeltaangle" [5]<br />Â Â  "texture L" ["Spots::L"] "float gain" [1.50]</code> |- |}  ===Common Light Parameters=== These parameters are applicable to all light plugins:  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | importance || float || It is part of the Rendering Hints framework. It is a user defined value. It can be used by a light strategy as weight for choosing which light source to sample more. A value of 0.0 will completely disable sampling of that light, assuming a light strategy which uses render hints was selected || 1.0 |- | gain || float || Overall intensity multiplier for the light  || 1.0 |}  ===Specific Light Parameters=== These parameters are specific to individual light plugins:  ====Area==== Defines a light emitting shape. This lamp definition must be enclosed within a shape definition, that shape will define the geometry. Note that as of v1.2, instances CANNOT be area lights!  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | area::L || color/texture || The color of the light. || 1 1 1 |- | area::nsamples || integer || The suggested number of shadow samples when computing illumination from the given light. || 1 |- | area::power || float || Lamp output power in watts. Setting 0 for both power and efficacy bypasses this feature and uses only the lamp gain || 100.0 |- | area::efficacy || float || Luminous efficacy in lumens/watt. Setting 0 for both power and efficacy bypasses this feature and uses only the lamp gain || 17.0 |- | area::iesname || string || Path to an IES file to use. Note that it will be deformed by the shape of the light, using a small sphere primitive for the geometry is highly recommended when using IES profiles with area lights || |}  ====Distant====  A generic directional light source located at infinity  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | distant::L || color || The color of the light. || 1 1 1 |- | distant::from/to || point || The two points defining the light direction. Default is down the z axis. || 0 0 0 and 0 0 1 |- | distant::theta || float || Half angle of the light source in radians. Must be > 0 for soft shadows. || 0 |- |}  ====Goniometric====  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | goniometric::I || color || The color of the light || 1 1 1 |- | goniometric::mapname || string || The filename of the goniometric file (goniometric diagram of light distribution) || no default |}  ====Infinite====  An omnidirectional environment light. Also used for attaching HDRI maps.  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | infinite::L ||color || The color of the light. || 1 1 1 |- | infinite::nsamples || integer || The suggested number of shadow samples when computing illumination from the given light. || 1 |- | infinite::mapname || string || The filename of the environment map for an infinite area light. If not provided, a solid color is used. || no default |}  ====Point==== A classic point lamp. This lamp is non-physical and should be avoided in most cases. A sphere primitive with an area light statement can be used for a more realistic omnidirectional light.  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | point::I || color || The color of the light. || 1 1 1 |- | point::from || point || The location of the point light. || 0 0 0 |- | point::power || float || Lamp output power in watts. Setting 0 for both power and efficacy bypasses this feature and uses only the lamp gain || 100.0 |- | point::efficacy || float || Luminous efficacy in lumens/watt. Setting 0 for both power and efficacy bypasses this feature and uses only the lamp gain || 17.0 |- | area::iesname || string || Path to an IES file to use.|| |}  ====Projection====  Projects an image, acting as something of a square spot light. Useful for simulating an actual image projector.  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | projection::I || color || The color of the light. || 1 1 1 |- | projection::fov || float || The field of view in terms of angular spread along the shorter image axis. || 45 |- | projection::mapname || string || The filename of the image to project. || required - no default |}  ====Sky====  An older physical sky lamp. Deprecated, use Sky2 instead.  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | sky::gain || float || Gain (aka scale) factor to apply to sun/skylight. || 0.005 |- | sky::nsamples || integer || The suggested number of shadow samples when computing illumination from the given light. || 1 |- | sky::sundir || vector || Direction vector of the sun. || 0 0 1 |- | sky::turbidity || float || Turbidity can go from 1.0 to 30+. 2-6 are most useful for clear days. || 2.0 |- | sky::aconst/bconst/cconst/dconst/econst || float || Perez function multiplicative constants. || 1.0 |}   ====Sky2====  A lamp for simulating the light output of a terrestrial sky. Uses the model from Hosek and Wilkie's paper "An Analytic Model for Full Spectral Sky-Dome Radiance". Can also be used with the sunsky2 light type, which will create matching sun and sky2 lamps. sunsky2 accepts all properties of both sky2 and sun.  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | sky2::gain || float || Gain (aka scale) factor to apply to sun/skylight. || 0.005 |- | sky2::nsamples || integer || The suggested number of shadow samples when computing illumination from the given light. || 1 |- | sky2::sundir || vector || Direction vector of the sun. || 0 0 1 |- | sky2::turbidity || float || Turbidity can go from 1.0 to 30+. 2-6 are most useful for clear days. || 2.0 |}  ====Spot==== A traditional CG spot light. Like the point light, it is non-physical and should be avoided if possible.  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | spot::I || color, texture || The color of the light. || 1 1 1 |- | spot::from/to || point || Points defining the axis of the spot light. Default is down the z-axis. || 0 0 0 and 0 0 1 respectively. |- | spot::coneangle || float || The angle in degrees of the spotlight cone. || 30 |- | spot::conedeltaangle || float || The angle at which the spotlight intensity starts to fade from the edge. || 5 |- | spot::gain || float || The intensity of the spot light || Â  |- | spot::power || float || Lamp output power in watts. Setting 0 for both power and efficacy bypasses this feature and uses only the lamp gain || 100.0 |- | spot::efficacy || float || Luminous efficacy in lumens/watt. Setting 0 for both power and efficacy bypasses this feature and uses only the lamp gain || 17.0 |}  ====Sun==== A special distant lamp that simulates the spectrum of the sun. Color is set automatically by angle.  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | sun::gain || float || Gain (aka scale) factor to apply to sun/skylight. || 0.005 |- | sun::nsamples || integer || The suggested number of shadow samples when computing illumination from the given light. || 1 |- | sun::sundir || vector || Direction vector of the sun. || 0 0 -1 |- | sun::turbidity || float || Turbidity can go from 1.0 to 30+. 2-6 are most useful for clear days. || 2.0 |- | sun::relsize || float || Relative size to the sun. || 1.0 |}  ==Attaching Materials, Volumes, and Lights==  Materials are attached to objects within the object/attribute blocks. They are each their own lines, separate from the transform and shape definition. To add light emission, add an area light statement. This is a normal light statement like those described in the previous section, for the lamp type "area".  The syntax for materials:   NamedMaterial "examplematerial"  Where "examplematerial" is a material defined by a MakeNamedMaterial statement. See [[Scene_file_format_1.0#Material|Materials]] for more info.  There are 3 possible commands, any or all can be used on a particular object:  *NamedMaterial (surface shader, this should always be used) *Interior (interior volume material) *Exterior (exterior volume material)  ==Shape== Here are the shape types. Each one is a separate plugin.  *'''cone''' *'''cylinder''' *'''disk''' *'''heightfield''' *'''hyperboloid''' *'''lenscomponent''' *'''loopsubdiv''' *'''nurbs''' *'''paraboloid''' *'''plymesh''' *'''stlmesh''' *'''sphere''' *'''trianglemesh''' *'''mesh''' *'''hairfileshape'''  ===Common Shape Parameters=== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | name || string || A string for identifying the mesh to the user. The contents of this string are not used by the renderer, names can be repeated or used arbitrarily. It is solely for human-readable output || "" |}  ===Common Mesh Shape Parameters=== The following parameters are shared among the mesh shapes, mesh, trianglemesh, plymesh, and stlmesh {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | generatetangents || bool || Generate tangent space using miktspace, useful if mesh has a normal map that was also baked using miktspace (such as blender or xnormal) || false |- | subdivscheme || string || Subdivision algorithm, options are "loop" and "microdisplacement" || "loop" |- | ''displacementmap'' || ''string'' || DEPRECATED ''Name of the texture used for the displacement. Subdivscheme parameter must always be provided, as load-time displacement is handled by the loop-subdivision code.''|| ''none - optional. (loop subdiv can be used without displacement, microdisplacement will not affect the mesh without a displacement map specified)'' |- | displacementmap || float || Texture used for the displacement. Subdivscheme parameter must always be provided, as load-time displacement is handled by the loop-subdivision code.|| none - optional. (loop subdiv can be used without displacement, microdisplacement will not affect the mesh without a displacement map specified) |- | dmscale || float || Scale of the displacement (for an LDR map, this is the maximum height of the displacement in meter) || 0.1 |- | dmoffset || float || Offset of the displacement. || 0 |- | dmnormalsmooth || bool || Smoothing of the normals of the subdivided faces. Only valid for loop subdivision. || true |- | dmnormalsplit || bool || Force the mesh to split along breaks in the normal. If a mesh has no normals (flat-shaded) it will rip open on all edges. Only valid for loop subdivision. || false |- | dmsharpboundary || bool || Try to preserve mesh boundaries during subdivision. Only valid for loop subdivision. || false |- | nsubdivlevels || integer || Number of subdivision levels. This is only recursive for loop subdivision, microdisplacement will need much larger values (such as 50). || 0 |}  ===Specific Shape Parameters=== These parameters are specific to individual shape plugins.  ====Cone==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | cone::radius || float || The radius of the cone. || 1.0 |- | cone::radius2 || float || The radius of the cone upper face in case of a cone frustum ''(available since v0.7)''. || 0.0 |- | cone::height || float || The height of the cone - along the z axis || 1.0 |- | cone::phimax || float || The angle (degrees) swept out by the cone round its circular base || 360.0 |}  ====Cylinder==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | cylinder::radius || float || The radius of the cylinder || 1.0 |- | cylinder::zmin || float || The position of the bottom of the cylinder along the z axis || -1.0 |- | cylinder::zmax || float || The position of the top of the cylinder along the z axis || 1.0 |- | cylinder::phimax || float || The angle (in degrees) swept out by the cylinder || 360.0 |}  ====Disk==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | disk::height || float || The location of the disk (which is flat) along the z-axis || 0.0 |- | disk::radius || float || The radius to the outer rim of the disk || 1.0 |- | disk::innerradius || float || The radius to the inner rim of the disk - defines a "hole" in the disk || 0.0 |- | disk::phimax || float || The angle (degrees) swept out by the disk || 360.0 |}  ====Height Field==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | heightfield::nu || integer || Number of points in the u axis || none - must be specified |- | heightfield::nv || integer || Number of points in the v axis || none - must be specified |- | heightfield::Pz || float[nu*nv] || The height of each point in the grid || none - must be specified |}  ====Hyperboloid==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | hyperboloid::p1 || point || The hyperboloid lies between p1 and p2. Here p1 defines the start of the hyperboloid || 0 0 0 |- | hyperboloid::p2 || point || The hyperboloid lies between p1 and p2. Here p2 defines the end of the hyperboloid || 0 0 0 |- | hyperboloid::phi || float || The angle (in degrees) swept out by the hyperboloid || 360.0 |}  ====Subdivision Surfaces==== Deprecated, instead use subdivscheme parameter on trianglemesh/mesh/plymesh/stlmesh shapes as applicable. This will allow for microdisplacement support. {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | loopsubdiv::nlevels || integer || The level of subdivision applied to the base mesh || 3 |- | loopsubdiv::indices || integer[n] || Indices of the cage mesh - using the same format as used in the triangle primitive || none - must be specified |- | loopsubdiv::P || point[n] || Vertex positions of the cage mesh - using the same format as used in the triangle primitive || none - must be specified |- | loopsubdiv::uv || float[2*n] || Vertex texture coordinates of the cage mesh - using the same format as used in the triangle primitive || none - optional |- | ''loopsubdiv::displacementmap'' || ''string'' || DEPRECATED ''Name of the texture used for the displacement. Subdivscheme parameter must always be provided, as load-time displacement is handled by the loop-subdivision code.''|| ''none - optional. (loop subdiv can be used without displacement, microdisplacement will not affect the mesh without a displacement map specified)'' |- | loopsubdiv::displacementmap || float || Texture used for the displacement. Subdivscheme parameter must always be provided, as load-time displacement is handled by the loop-subdivision code.|| none - optional. (loop subdiv can be used without displacement, microdisplacement will not affect the mesh without a displacement map specified) |- | loopsubdiv::dmscale || float || Scale the output of displacement map by the specified value (use negative value in order to invert the map) || 0.1 |- | loopsubdiv::dmoffset || float || Translate the output of displacement map by the specified value || 0.0 |- | loopsubdiv::dmnormalsmooth || bool || Interpolate normals in order to get a smooth output || true |- | loopsubdiv::dmsharpboundary || bool || The output mesh will have the same boundary of the cage mesh if this flag is true, otherwise the boundary will be interpolated as well || false |}  ====Lens Component==== This shape is primarily used by the realistic camera. Lens are approximated by a sphere section.  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | lenscomponent::radius || float || The radius of the sphere || 1.0 |- | lenscomponent::zmin || float || The position of the bottom of the sphere along the z axis || -radius |- | lenscomponent::zmax || float || The position of the top of the sphere along the z axis || radius |- | lenscomponent::phimax || float || The angle (in degrees) swept out by the sphere || 360.0 |- | lenscomponent::aperture || float || The aperture of the lens || 1.0 |}  ====NURBS==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | nurbs::nu || integer || Sets the number of control points in the u direction || none - must be specified |- | nurbs::nv || integer || Sets the number of control points in the v direction || none - must be specified |- | nurbs::uorder || integer || The order (surface degree + 1) in the u direction Defines how many nearby control points affect each control point || none - must be specified |- | nurbs::vorder || integer || The order (surface degree + 1) in the v direction. Defines how many nearby control points affect each control point || none - must be specified |- | nurbs::uknots || float[nu+uorder] (eg. if nu = 2 and uorder = 2 we have a float[4] such as (1,1,1,1)) || The knot vector in the u direction || none - must be specified |- | nurbs::vknots || float[nv+vorder] || The knot vector in the v direction || none - must be specified |- | nurbs::u0/nurbs::v0 || float || The u and v coordinates from which NURB surface evaluation starts || uknots[uorder-1]/vknots[vorder-1] |- | nurbs::u1/nurbs::v1 || float || The u and v coordinates from which NURB surface evaluation ends || uknots[nu]/vknots[nv] |- | nurbs::P || point[nu*nv] || P specifies regular control points on the NURBS surface || none - one of either P or Pw must be specified |- | nurbs::Pw || float[4*nu*nv] || Pw specifies rational control points on the surface which include a weight value for each control point || none - one of either P or Pw must be specified |}  ====Paraboloid==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | paraboloid::radius || float || The radius of the paraboloid || 1.0 |- | paraboloid::zmin || float || The position of the bottom the paraboloid along the z axis || 0.0 |- | paraboloid::zmax || float || The position of the top the paraboloid along the z axis || 1.0 |- | paraboloid::phimax || float || The angle (in degrees) swept out by the paraboloid || 360.0 |}  ====PLY Mesh Loader==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | plymesh::filename || string || The .ply filename to load || none |- | plymesh::smooth || bool || Toggles smoothing of the mesh faces || false |}  Plymesh example: <table> <tr><td> AttributeBegin # Plymodel<br> Â Â Â Â Â NamedMaterial "plymodel"<br> Â Â Â Â Â Shape "plymesh"<br> Â Â Â Â Â "string filename" ["c:\\blender\\models\\plymesh.ply"]<br> AttributeEnd </td></tr> </table>  ====STL Mesh Loader==== Same as plymesh, but loads STL files instead. {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | stlmesh::filename || string || The .ply filename to load || none |- | stlmesh::smooth || bool || Toggles smoothing of the mesh faces || false |}  ====Sphere==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | sphere::radius || float || The radius of the sphere || 1.0 |- | sphere::zmin || float || The position of the bottom of the sphere along the z axis || Set to - sphere::radius |- | sphere::zmax || float || The position of the top of the sphere along the z axis || Set to - sphere::radius |- | sphere::phimax || float || The angle (in degrees) swept out by the sphere || 360.0 |}  ====Triangle Mesh==== There are two types of triangle mesh: ''barytrianglemesh'' and ''waldtrianglemesh''. Both have the same below parameters but waldtrianglemesh uses a better intersection algorithm. Using only ''trianglemesh'' defaults to the ''barytrianglemesh'' which is better tested.  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | trianglemesh::indices || integer[n] || An array indexing the triangles found in the P array. The three vertices of the ith triangle are given by 3i, 3i+1, 3i+2. This provides the ordering of the triangles || none - must be specified |- | trianglemesh::P || point[n] || An unordered list of vertex positions in the triangle mesh. Ordered with trianglemesh::indices || none - must be specified |- | trianglemesh::N || normal[n] || Per vertex normals over the triangle mesh || none - optional |- | trianglemesh::S || vector[n] || Tangents given at each vertex. Tangents are perpendicular to normals || none - optional (deprecated) |- | trianglemesh::uv || float[2*n] || Texture coordinates (per vertex) || none - optional |- | trianglemesh::st || float[2*n] || Texture coordinates (per vertex) || none - optional |}  ====Mesh==== Available since v0.6.  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | mesh::N || normal[n] || Per vertex normals over the mesh || none - optional |- | mesh::P || point[n] || An unordered list of vertex positions in the mesh. || none - must be specified |- | mesh::acceltype || string || Accelerator structure to use (auto, bruteforce, grid, kdtree, none, qbvh) || "auto" |- | mesh::quadindices || integer[4*q] || An array indexing the quadrilaterals found in the P array. The three vertices of the ith quadrilateral are given by 4i, 4i+1, 4i+2, 4i+3. This provides the ordering of the quadrilaterals || none - must be specified |- | mesh::quadtype || string || Select the intersection routine used for quadrilaterals (quadrilateral) || "quadrilateral" |- | mesh::triindices || integer[3*t] || An array indexing the triangles found in the P array. The three vertices of the ith triangle are given by 3i, 3i+1, 3i+2. This provides the ordering of the triangles || none - must be specified |- | mesh::tritype || string || Select the intersection routine used for triangles (auto, bary, wald) || "auto" |- | mesh::uv || float[2*n] || Texture coordinates (per vertex) || none - optional |}  ====Hairfileshape==== Available since v1.3. A special shape for loading hair and fur particles. It accepts baked hair systems in the cemyuksel hair file format: http://www.cemyuksel.com/research/hairmodels/  Note that hairfileshape is merely a strand primitive, NOT a hair simulator. The hair system should be simulated elsewhere and "baked" to the cemyuskel format at export time  Strands are loaded and tessellated as either camera-facing ribbons or cylinders. An adaptive tessellation version of both modes is available, and in most cases should be used  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value !recommended value |- | hairfileshape::filename || string || Path to the hair file || |- | hairfileshape::camerapos || point || Location of the camera, used to orient ribbons towards the camera, and for adaptive tessellation distance || |- | hairfileshape::tesseltype || string || Tessellation method for the strands. One of "ribbonadaptive", "ribbon", "solidadaptive", and "solid". "Ribbon" modes use camera-facing planes, "solid" modes use cylinders. || "ribbonadaptive" || ribbonadaptive is best in most cases. solidadaptive can be preferable with a small number of thick strands |- | hairfileshape::acceltype || string || Accelerator used for strands. One of "kdtree" or "qbvh" || qbvh |- | hairfileshape::adaptive_maxdepth || integer || Max tessellation depth for adaptive tessellation modes || 8 |- | hairfileshape::adaptive_error || float || Max error tolerance for adaptive tessellation modes || 0.1 |- | hairfileshape::solid_sidecount || integer || Solid modes only, number of faces on each cylinder || 3 |- | hairfileshape::solid_capbottom || bool || Solid modes only, adds a triangle fan cap to the strand root || false |- | hairfileshape::solid_captop || bool || Solid modes only, adds a triangle fan cap to the strand tip || false |}  ==Material== Here are the material types.  *'''carpaint''' *'''cloth''' *'''glass''' *'''glass2''' *'''glossy''' *'''glossycoating''' *'''glossytranslucent''' *'''glossy_lossy''' (deprecated, use glossy) *'''layered''' (not well tested, may be unstable) *'''matte''' (default) *'''mattetranslucent''' *'''metal''' (deprecated, use metal2) *'''metal2''' *'''mirror''' *'''mix''' *'''null''' *'''roughglass''' *'''shinymetal''' (deprecated, use mirror+glossycoating or metal2 as needed) *'''scatter''' *'''velvet'''  See http://www.luxrender.net/wiki/LuxRender_Materials for detailed descriptions of each material  ===Common Material Parameters=== Here are the common parameters for materials. Note that float and color textures are described in the 'Texture' section.  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | bumpmap || float texture || The floating-point texture for use as a bump map || None |}  ===Integrator Dependant Parameters=== The following material parameters are available on all materials for the stated Integrators:  {| class="wikitable" cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !integrator !description !default value |- | compo_visible_material || bool || distributedpath || Material will not be directly visible (it will have alpha-0), but will reflect light and be visible in reflection and transmission || true |- | compo_visible_emission || bool || distributedpath || If object is emitting, it will not appear to shine when viewed directly || true |- | compo_visible_indirect_material || bool || distributedpath || XXX || true |- | compo_visible_indirect_emission || bool || distributedpath || XXX || true |- | compo_override_alpha || bool || distributedpath || Override the alpha value in the output image for hits on this material || false |- | compo_override_alpha_value || float || distributedpath || Value to set alpha to when overridden || 0.0 |}  ===Specific Material Parameters=== These parameters are specific to individual material plugins.  ====Car Paint==== The available names for the carpaint material are: *"ford f8" *"polaris silber" *"opel titan" *"bmw339" *"2k acrylack" *"white" *"blue" *"blue matte"  Other parameters are only necessary if no name given.  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | carpaint::name || string || The name of the car paint model to use || "ford f8" |- | carpaint::Kd || color texture || Diffuse component || "ford f8" data |- | carpaint::Ks1 / carpaint::Ks2 / carpaint::Ks3 || color texture || Specular component of layers || "ford f8" data |- | carpaint::R1 / carpaint::R2 / carpaint::R3 || float texture || Fresnel constants of layers || "ford f8" data |- | carpaint::M1 / carpaint::M2 / carpaint::M3 || float texture || Microfacet roughness of layers || "ford f8" data |}  ====Cloth==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | cloth::warp_Kd || color texture || The coefficient of diffuse reflection in one weave direction || 0.5 |- | cloth::warp_Ks || color texture || The coefficient of specular reflection in one weave direction || 0.5 |- | cloth::weft_Kd || color texture || The coefficient of diffuse reflection in the opposite weave direction || 0.5 |- | cloth::weft_Ks || color texture || The coefficient of specular reflection in the opposite weave direction || 0.5 |- | cloth::repeat_u || float || Thread count in the u direction || 100.0 |- | cloth::repeat_u || float || Thread count in the v direction || 100.0 |- | cloth::presetname|| string || Name of the fabric type. One of "silk_charmeuse", "denim", "cotton_twill", "wool_gabardine", "polyester_lining_cloth", or "silk_shantung" || "denim" |- |}  ====Glass==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | glass::Kr || color, texture || The reflectivity of the surface || [1.0 1.0 1.0] |- | glass::Kt || color, texture || Fraction of light transmitted through the surface || [1.0 1.0 1.0] |- | glass::index || float, texture || The index of refraction for the glass surface || 1.5 |- | glass::cauchyb || float, texture || Cauchy B coefficient || 0.0 |- | glass::film || float, texture || The thickness in nanometers of the thin film coating (0.0 disables) on the surface || 0.0 |- | glass::filmindex || float, texture || The index of refraction of the thin film coating on the surface || 1.5 |- | glass::architectural || bool || Disables refraction during transmission, improves rendering speed with thin sheets || False |}  ====Glass2==== Glass2 is an "empty shell" for volumes, it will be invisible if no interior medium is specified {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | glass2::architectural || bool || Disables refraction during transmission, improves rendering speed with thin sheets || False |- | glasss2::dispersion || bool || Enables chromatic dispersion. Should be used with a volume that has a fresnel texture other than "constant" || False |- |}  ====Glossy==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | glossy::Kd || color texture || The coefficient of diffuse reflection || 0.5 |- | glossy::Ks || color texture || The coefficient of specular reflection || 0.5 |- | glossy::Ka || color texture || The coefficient of absorption of the coating layer || 0.0 |- | glossy::uroughness || float texture || The roughness of the surface in the u direction || 0.1 |- | glossy::vroughness || float texture || The roughness of the surface in the v direction || 0.1 |- | glossy::d || float texture || The depth (thickness) of the coating layer for absorption effects. (0 = disables) || 0.0 |- | glossy::index || float texture || IOR of the coating. IOR overrides color Ks if both are specified || 0.0 |- | glossy::multibounce || bool || Simulation of asperity (velvet-like reflection) on the glossy surface || false |- | glossy::separable || bool || If true, material acts internally as matte+glossycoating. This is somewhat more efficient to render, and allows use of the sigma parameter || true |- | glossy::sigma || float texture || The sigma parameter of the Oren-Nayer base shader in degrees. Zero for pure Lambertian reflection. Ignored if "separable" option is false || 0.0 |- |}  ====Glossycoating==== Glossycoating in an "empty glaze" shader. It takes another material as a base, and puts a glossy coating over the top of it. Any other material can be used a base material, including another glossycoating. (however, the parameter cannot be left blank, so the last glossycoating in the stack must have some other material as its base) {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | glossycoating::basematerial || string || The name of another MakeNamedMaterial block that describes the base material || |- | glossycoating::Ks || color texture || The coefficient of specular reflection || 0.5 |- | glossycoating::Ka || color texture || The coefficient of absorption of the coating layer || 0.0 |- | glossycoating::uroughness || float texture || The roughness of the surface in the u direction || 0.1 |- | glossycoating::vroughness || float texture || The roughness of the surface in the v direction || 0.1 |- | glossycoating::d || float texture || The depth (thickness) of the coating layer for absorption effects. (0 = disables) || 0.0 |- | glossycoating::index || float texture || IOR of the coating. IOR overrides color Ks if both are specified || 0.0 |- | glossycoating::multibounce || bool || Simulation of asperity (velvet-like) on the glossy surface || false |- |}  ====GlossyTranslucent==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | glossytranslucent::Kd || color texture || The coefficient of diffuse reflection || 0.5 |- | glossytranslucent::Ks || color texture || The coefficient of specular reflection || 0.5 |- | glossytranslucent::Kt || color texture || The coefficient of transmission || 1.0 |- | glossytranslucent::Ka || color texture || The coefficient of absorption of the coating layer || 0.0 |- | glossytranslucent::uroughness || float texture || The roughness of the surface in the u direction || 0.1 |- | glossytranslucent::vroughness || float texture || The roughness of the surface in the v direction || 0.1 |- | glossytranslucent::d || float texture || The depth (thickness) of the coating layer for absorption effects. (0 = disables) || 0.0 |- | glossytranslucent::index || float texture || IOR of the coating. IOR overrides color Ks if both are specified || 0.0 |- | glossytranslucent::onesided || bool || Disable seperate coating for backface || True |- | glossytranslucent::backface_Ks || color texture || The coefficient of backface specular reflection || 0.5 |- | glossytranslucent::backface_Ka || color texture || The coefficient of absorption of the backface coating layer || 0.0 |- | glossytranslucent::backface_uroughness || float texture || The roughness of the backface surface in the u direction || 0.1 |- | glossytranslucent::backface_vroughness || float texture || The roughness of the backface surface in the v direction || 0.1 |- | glossytranslucent::backface_d || float texture || The depth (thickness) of the coating layer for backface absorption effects. (0 = disables) || 0.0 |- | glossytranslucent::backface_index || float texture || IOR of the backface coating. || 0.0 |}  ====Layered==== A special material that realistically layers other materials. The model is will be computed as though each layer actually forms a separate surface. There are a maximum of 4 slots. Mix, glossycoating, and other layered materials can all be assigned, however, effectively allowing an unlimited number of layers. Only the first slot is required, though there is no practical use for only filling one slot. This is due to a rather severe speed penalty when using the layered material, it is far more practical to use that material by itself. Additionally, this material will perform quite poorly compared to the mix or glossycoating materials, so you should use those material instead if possible.  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | layered::namedmaterial1 || string || The name of the first (base) material in the stack || None |- | layered::namedmaterial2 || string || The name of the second material in the stack || None |- | layered::namedmaterial3 || string || The name of the s material in the stack || None |- | layered::namedmaterial4 || string || The name of the second material in the stack || None |- | layered::opacity1 || float texture || The value or texture to determine transmission through the base layer. 1.0 = no added transmission. || 0.5 |- | layered::opacity2 || float texture || The value or texture to determine transmission through the layer 2. 1.0 = no added transmission. || 0.5 |- | layered::opacity3 || float texture || The value or texture to determine transmission through the layer 3. 1.0 = no added transmission. || 0.5 |- | layered::opacity4 || float texture || The value or texture to determine transmission through the layer 4. 1.0 = no added transmission. || 0.5 |- |}  ====Matte==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | matte::Kd || color texture || The diffuse reflectivity of the surface || 1.0 |- | matte::sigma || float texture || The sigma parameter in the Oren-Nayer shader in degrees. Zero for pure Lambertian reflection || 0.0 |}  ====MatteTranslucent==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | mattetranslucent::Kr || color texture || The diffuse reflectivity of the surface || 1.0 |- | mattetranslucent::Kt || color texture || The diffuse transmitivity of the surface || 1.0 |- | mattetranslucent::sigma || float texture || The sigma parameter in the Oren-Nayer shader in degrees. Zero for pure Lambertian reflection || 0.0 |- | mattetranslucent::energyconserving || bool || Enabling forces energy conservation by making Kt = Kt*(1-Kr) (the glossytranslucent material does not have a similar flag, it acts as though it was always enabled)|| False |}  ====Metal==== These are the possible inbuilt metal names: *"amorphous carbon" *"silver" *"gold" *"copper" *"aluminium"  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | metal::name || string || The name of the desired inbuilt metal or nkdata file. || 1.0 |- | metal::uroughness || float texture || Roughness of the surface in the u direction from 0 to 1. Rough surfaces have blurry highlights || 0.001 |- | metal::vroughness || float texture || Roughness of the surface in the v direction from 0 to 1. Rough surfaces have blurry highlights || 0.001 |}  ====Metal2==== Note that "fresnel" is a fresnel texture input, not a float, even though the command for a constant value is "float fresnel".  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | metal2::fresnel || fresnel texture || Fresnel input for the metal's nk profile. Can accept constant values, but is meant primarily to be used with the fresnelcolor (constant color) and fresnelname (presets/measured data) textures. || 5.0 |- | metal2::uroughness || float texture || Roughness of the surface in the u direction from 0 to 1. Rough surfaces have blurry highlights || 0.001 |- | metal2::vroughness || float texture || Roughness of the surface in the v direction from 0 to 1. Rough surfaces have blurry highlights || 0.001 |}  ====Mirror==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | mirror::Kr || color texture || The reflectivity of the mirror || 1.0 |- | mirror::film || float texture || The thickness in nanometers of the thin film coating (0.0 disables) on the surface || 0.0 |- | mirror::filmindex || float texture || The index of refraction of the thin film coating on the surface || 1.5 |}  ====Mix==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | mix::namedmaterial1 || string || The name of the first material to mix || None |- | mix::namedmaterial2 || string || The name of the second material to mix || None |- | mix::amount|| float texture || The value or texture to mix by || 0.5 |}  ====Null==== The Null material takes no options.  ====Rough Glass==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | roughglass::Kr || color texture || The reflectivity of the surface || 1.0 |- | roughglass::Kt || color texture || Fraction of light transmitted through the surface || 1.0 |- | roughglass::uroughness || float texture || Roughness of the surface in the u direction from 0 to 1. Rough surfaces have blurry highlights || 0.001 |- | roughglass::vroughness || float texture || Roughness of the surface in the v direction from 0 to 1. Rough surfaces have blurry highlights || 0.001 |- | roughglass::index || float texture || The index of refraction for the glass surface || 1.5 |- | roughglass::cauchyb || float texture || Cauchy B coefficient || 0.0 |- | roughglass::dispersion || bool || Enables accurate dispersion computation || false |}  ====Shiny Metal==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | shinymetal::uroughness || float texture || Roughness of the surface in the u direction from 0 to 1. Rough surfaces have blurry highlights || 0.001 |- | shinymetal::vroughness || float texture || Roughness of the surface in the v direction from 0 to 1. Rough surfaces have blurry highlights || 0.001 |- | shinymetal::Ks || color texture || The coefficient of glossy reflection || 1.0 |- | shinymetal::Kr || color texture || The coefficient of specular reflection || 1.0 |- | shinymetal::film || float texture || The thickness in nanometers of the thin film coating (0.0 disables) on the surface || 0.0 |- | shinymetal::filmindex || float texture || The index of refraction of the thin film coating on the surface || 1.5 |}  ====Scatter==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | scatter::Kd || color texture || Color of the material || 1.0 |- | scatter:g || float texture || Value from -1 to 1.0 that sets the asymmetry of the scattering || 0.0 |}  ====Velvet==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | velvet::Kd || color texture || Color of the material's fuzz || 1.0 |- | velvet:thickness || float texture || Height of the fuzz || 0.10 |- | velvet:p1 || float texture || Polynomial that influences the fuzz || -2.0 |- | velvet:p2 || float texture || Polynomial that influences the fuzz || 20.0 |- | velvet:p3 || float texture || Polynomial that influences the fuzz || 2.0 |}  ==Texture== ===General Syntax=== <blockquote><pre>     Texture NAME color|float|spectrum|fresnel TYPE <values> </pre></blockquote>  Where NAME is a quoted string, and TYPE is one of the types listed below. The second parameter for a texture denotes if this texture defines values of type color, float or fresnel data.  Textures are declared differently from what we have seen so far. An example of a texture declaration is: <blockquote><pre>     Texture "checks" "color" "checkerboard" </pre></blockquote>  'checks' is the name given by the user to the texture. This name is arbitrarily chosen by the user to refer to in the material declaration. In order to tell a "matte" material to use a checkerboard texture for diffuse reflectivity, in this example you would type:  <blockquote><pre>     Material "matte" "texture Kd" "checks" </pre></blockquote>  Again, note that you refer to a texture, you type '''"texture ''param''" "''name''"''' where ''param'' is the parameter you want the texture to modulate and ''name'' is the name you have assigned the texture.  ''color'' declares the texture type which can be one of the following:  * color -  RGB color or some sort of spectral power distribution (the latter is given by special textures, see next section). Note the US English spelling of the word "color". * float  - Single-channel data, used to texture numeric inputs. * fresnel - A specialized form of "float" used to set optical datasets.  Some textures have more than one possible type available, a handful can even be all 3 (see next section). Note that the type declaration must be included regardless.  ===Texture Types=== There is no default texture type. The texture types are:  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !Type !Variants !Description |- |'''add''' || float/color || Addition of color or texture to another texture. |- |'''band''' || float/color/fresnel || "Gradient" texture. This is a more sophisticated version of the mix texture that allows more than 2 values. Native gradient/ramp nodes should translate to this texture. |- |'''bilerp''' || float/color/fresnel || Bilinear interpolation texture, takes 4 values and interpolates between them |- |'''blackbody''' || color || Definition of the color temperature expressed in Kelvin. For example:<br><code>Texture "LampTemp" "color" "blackbody" "float temperature" [6500]</code> |- |'''brick''' || float/color || Procedural pattern for generating bricks and tile |- |'''cauchy''' || fresnel || Allows defining of fresnel inputs via Cauchy's equation |- |'''checkerboard''' || float || A checkerboard. Useful to visualize the geometry flow.  |- |'''cloud''' || float || ? |- |'''colordepth''' || color || A texture for simplifying absorption. Takes a target color and the depth that light should penetrate before becoming that color. This is a curve, light that penetrates shorter distances will be lighter and less saturated, and vice versa |- |'''constant''' || float/color/fresnel || Outputs a constant value. For example, the color version simply generates a color:<br><code>Texture "SolidColor" "color" "constant" "color value" [1.000 0.910 0.518]</code> |- |'''dots''' || float || Generates a pattern of dots |- |'''equalenergy''' || color || Generates a spectral power distribution at a single intensity level |- |'''fbm''' || float || A fractal brownian motion pattern |- |'''fresnelcolor''' || fresnel || A color > nk converter. Takes an input color and outputs an IOR distribution so that a reflective object reflects the input color. (primarily used for metal2 material) |- |'''fresnelname''' || fresnel || IOR data loader. Can load an NK file in the Sopra or Luxpop formats, or one of several presets. (this should be used in place of the luxpop or sopra textures) |- |'''gaussian''' || color || Defines a spectrum along a gaussian curve |- |'''harlequin''' || color || Geometry test pattern. Colors each face differently |- |'''imagemap''' || float/color || A texture defined with an external image. |- |'''lampspectrum''' || color || A loader of spectral presets for various light sources. |- |'''luxpop''' || fresnel || A Luxpop NK file loader. Deprecated in 1.0, use fresnelname instead. |- |'''marble''' || color || Procedural marble. Note that this is the only 3D noise texture that uses a color output |- |'''mix''' || float/color/fresnel || A mix of two textures based on a third value that can be either a constant or bitmap-based. Useful to combine textures or define transparency maps. |- |'''multimix''' || float/color/fresnel || A textures for adding other textures. Each input texture is scaled by its "weight" value, then the results are summed. |- |'''normalmap''' || float || A special version of imagemap for loading normal maps. |- |'''scale''' || float/color/fresnel || Multiplies the two input values/textures. This is the multiply/divide node for the texture pipeline. |- |'''sellmeier''' || fresnel || Allows defining of fresnel inputs via the Sellmeier equation |- |'''sopra''' || fresnel || A Sopra NK file loader. Deprecated in 1.0, use fresnelname instead. |- |'''subtract''' || float/color || Subtraction of color or texture from another texture. Please note that the order of the textures is important. Subtract tex2 from tex1. |- |'''tabulateddata''' || color || Loads external datafile that defines color across a spectrum |- |'''uv''' || color || A UV test pattern |- |'''uvmask''' || float || Generates a mask based on UV coverage |- |'''windy''' || float || A fractal pattern for waves on water surfaces. It has no parameters. |- |'''wrinkled''' || float || A procedural noise texture, good for producing wrinkling or clouding on surfaces. |- |'''blender_blend''' || float || Blender's "blend" texture, generates a 3-dimensional gradient. |- |'''blender_clouds''' || float || Blender's clouds procedural noise. Has various Perlin/Voronoi clouds patterns. |- |'''blender_distortednoise''' || float || Blender's distorted noise texture. Distorts one noise pattern by another. |- |'''blender_musgrave''' || float || Blender's Musgrave procedural noise. |- |'''blender_magic''' || float || Blender's "magic" texture. Produces a sort of layered cross-hatch pattern |- |'''blender_marble''' || float || Blender's "marble" texture. Produces bands of noise |- |'''blender_noise''' || float || Blender's noise texture. Produces a fine, high-frequency noise. |- |'''blender_stucci''' || float || Blender's Stucci procedural noise |- |'''blender_voronoi''' || float || Blender's Voronoi procedural noise |- |'''blender_wood''' || float || Blender's "wood" texture. |}  ===Common Texture Parameters (2D)=== Only 2D textures share these parameters: these are 'bilerp', 'imagemap', 'normalmap',  'uv', 'checkerboard' and 'dots'. Note that checkerboard can also be set as a 3D texture, and in that case the UV coordinates are not used.  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | mapping || string || Texture mapping to use. Can be "uv", "spherical","cylindrical" or "planar". || "uv" |- | uscale|| float || The scaling of the u texture coordinates. Only applies to "uv" mapping. || 1 |- | vscale || float || The scaling of the v texture coordinates. Only applies to "uv" mapping. || 1 |- | udelta/vdelta || float || u/v offset for "planar" or "uv" texture mappings. || 0 |- | v1/v2 || vector || The two vectors that define the plane for "planar" mapping || (1,0,0) and (0,1,0) respectively |}  ===Common Texture Paramaters (3D)=== {| class="wikitable" cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | coordinates || string || Coordinate system for 3D texture space. Options are "global", "local" "global normal", "localnormal" and "uv" || "global" |- | translate || vector || Translate transformation for 3D texture space || 0 0 0 |- | rotate || vector || Rotate transformation for 3D texture space || 0 0 0 |- | scale || vector || Scale transformation for 3D texture space || 1 1 1 |}  ===Specific Texture Parameters=== These parameters are specific to individual texture plugins:  ====add====  Example of use: <blockquote><pre>Texture "Added" "color" "add" "color tex1" [0.0 0.5 0.0] "texture tex2" ["myTexture"]</pre></blockquote>  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | add::tex1|| color/float texture || The first of the textures to add together || 1.0,1.0,1.0 |- | add::tex2 || color/float texture || The second of the textures to add together || 1.0,1.0,1.0 |}  ====band==== Defines a gradient of colors or textures that can be selected using, for example, a B&W noise texture. This texture is the way you can convert a float texture to a color one. By setting the colors, or "bands", in the inputs for this texture, you assign what color is used for black, white and all possible intermediate values.  Example:  <blockquote><pre> # Create a noise pattern using the Blender clouds procedural shader Texture "noise" "float" "blender_clouds"     "float bright" [1.0]     "float contrast" [1.0]     "string noisetype" ["soft_noise"]     "string noisebasis" ["blender_original"]     "float noisesize" [0.25]     "integer noisedepth" [2]     "string coordinates" ["global"]     "vector scale" [1.0 1.0 1.0]  # The band texture defines four colors, equally "spaced". Black in the noise texture # selects tex1, white selects tex4, grey points in between are selected based on their proximity # the textures in between Texture "Texture" "color" "band"     "texture amount" ["noise"]     "color tex1" [0.71054006 0.00000000 0.04896442]     "color tex2" [0.00264841 0.00000000 0.30318916]     "color tex3" [0.19658694 0.67383397 0.16353604]     "color tex4" [0.70282871 0.88290709 0.84896249]     "float offsets" [0.0 0.33 0.66 1.0] </pre> </blockquote>  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | band::tex1..texN || color/float/fresnel || Any number of textures starting from tex1 ||none |- | band::offsets || float array || A series of floats, one for each texture, which selects the texture form the previous parameter. For example, value 0 for tex1 will indicate that that texture is used when the amount, see below, is set at 0.  ||none |- | band::amount || texture/float  || The point picked in the range. Normally this is set to a float texture, like a noise pattern. Each pixel in the pattern becomes a selector in the band texture ||none |}  ====bilerp==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | bilerp::v00 || color/float/fresnel || First value to bilinearly interpolate. || 0 |- | bilerp::v01 || color/float/fresnel || Second value to bilinearly interpolate. || 1 |- | bilerp::v10 || color/float/fresnel || Third value to bilinearly interpolate. || 0 |- | bilerp::v11 || color/float/fresnel || Fourth value to bilinearly interpolate. || 1  |}  ====brick==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | brick::brickbond || string || Determines the brick pattern. One of: "stacked", "flemish", "english", "herringbone", "basket", "chain link". || "stacked" |- | brick::brickwidth || float || width of the brick. || 0.3 |- | brick::brickheight || float || Height of the brick || 0.1 |- | brick::brickdepth || float || Depth of the brick || 0.15 |- | brick::mortarsize || float || Size of the mortar strips || 0.01 |- | brick::brickbevel || float || Bevel for the brick || 0.0 |- | brick::brickrun || float || Amount of linear offset down the row between adjacent rows. It works only for stacked, english, and flemish. For correct result with flemish brickrun must be 0.75 || 0.75 |- | brick::bricktex || color/texture || Color or texture of the brick face || 1.0 |- | brick::brickmodtex || float texture || Modulation texture for the brick face || 1.0 |- | brick::mortartex || color/texture || Texture for the mortar || 0.2 |}  ====checkerboard==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | checkerboard::dimension || integer || Specifies whether a 2D or 3D checkerboard texture is being used. || Values can be either 2 or 3. Defaults to 2. |- | checkerboard::tex1/tex2 || float texture || The texture to use for even/odd squares of the checkerboard. || 1 and 0 respectively |- | checkerboard::aamode || string || For 2D checkerboard only - the antialiasing mode to use: "closedform","supersample" or "none". || "closedform" |}  ====cloud==== This is a 3D texture meant to define cloud volumes. The cloud will be defined in a (0, 0, 0)-(1, 1, 1) cube and can then be scaled and placed using standard 3D mapping transform options.  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value !theoretical range !suggested range |-  | cloud::radius || float || The overall cloud radius inside the base cube. || 0.5 || 0 < x || 0 < x < 0.5 |- | cloud::noisescale || float || The strength of the noise. || 0.5 || 0 <= x || 0 <= x <= 1 |- | cloud::turbulence || float || The size of the noise displacement. || 0.01 || 0 <= x || 0 <= x <= 0.1 |- | cloud::sharpness || float || Noise sharpness (the higher the more spikes you'll get). || 6.0 || 0 < x || 0 < x |- | cloud::noiseoffset || float || Parameter to change the random sequence used so that you can get reproducible yet unique clouds. || 0.0 || 0 <= x <= 1 || 0 <= x <= 1 |- | cloud::spheres || integer || If it is greater than 0, the cloud will consist of a bunch of random spheres to mimic a cumulus, this is the number of random spheres. If set to 0, the cloud will consist of single displaced sphere. || 0 || 0 <= x || 0 <= x |- | cloud::octaves || integer || The number of octaves for the noise function. || 1 || 0 <= x || 0 < x |- | cloud::omega || float || The amount of noise per octave. || 0.75 || 0 <= x <= 1 || 0 < x < 1 |- | cloud::variability || float || Amount of extra noise. || 0.9 || 0 <= x <= 1 || 0 <= x <= 1 |- | cloud::baseflatness || float || How much the base of the cloud is flattened. || 0.8 || 0 <= x <= 1 || 0.67 <= x <= 0.9 |- | cloud::spheresize || float || The maximum size of the cumulus spheres. || 0.15 || 0 <= x || 0 < x < 1-radius |}  ====colordepth==== Many users find it's useful for LuxRender exporters to have an option to set volume absorption by result color rather than by the actual absorption color/spectrum. This texture simplifies this, so exporter writers don't have to code the math themselves. It also makes it possible to specify a resulting spectrum (by texturing color Kt) and letting LuxRender calculate the absorption spectrum from that. {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | colordepth::Kt || color texture|| Transmitted color at the target depth.  || 0.0 |- | colordepth::depth || float || The depth in meters a ray must penetrate to turn to the color set by Kt. This is a scaling factor, shorter distances will give lighter and less saturated colors, and vice versa || 1.0 |}  ====densitygrid==== This texture is meant to define volumes using density data obtained for example from a smoke simulation. It will be defined in a (0, 0, 0)-(1, 1, 1) cube and can then be scaled and placed using standard 3D mapping transform options. It can also be repeated like an image map.  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value !theoretical range !suggested range |- | densitygrid::nx || integer || The number of values alongside the x axis. || 1 || || |- | densitygrid::ny || integer || The number of values alongside the y axis. || 1 || || |- | densitygrid::nz || integer || The number of values alongside the z axis. || 1 || || |- | densitygrid::density || floats || The array of values in the order x, y, z. There must be exactly nx*ny*nz values. || || || |- | densitygrid::wrap || string || The wrapping mode when outside of the base cube. "repeat" will repeat the volume informations in subsequent cubes, "black" will set the texture to 0 outside the base cube, "white" will set it to 1, "clamp" will extend the values on the cube boundaries outside the cube. || "repeat" || || |}  ====dots==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | dots::inside|| color/float texture || The colour of the dots. || 1 |- | dots::outside || color/float texture || The colour of the background. || 0 |}  ====exponential==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value !theoretical range !suggested range |- | exponential::origin || point || The reference point to compute the exponential decay || (0, 0, 0) || || |- | exponential::updir || vector || The direction of the exponential decay. || (0, 0, 1) || || |- | exponential::decay || float || The reference distance for the exponential decay expressed as exp(-decay*Dot(p-origin, updir)) || 1.0 || || |}  ====fbm==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | fbm::octaves || integer || The number of octaves to use in the spectrum. || 8 |- | fbm::roughness || float || The "bumpiness" of the texture. || 0.5 |}  ====fresnelname==== This texture will first attempt to load the value for filename as a sopra nk file, then as a luxpop nk file, and failing this, will try to find a preset matching the value for name. If all of this fails, it will output the aluminum preset. The possible strings for name are:  *'''amorphous carbon''' *'''silver''' *'''gold''' *'''copper''' *'''aluminium''' {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | fresnelname::filename || string || The path of a Sopra or Luxpop nk file to use. || |- | fresnelname::name || float || The name of the metal preset to use || aluminium |}  ====fresnelcolor====  Examples of use: <blockquote><pre>Texture "ABC.fresnel" "fresnel" "fresnelcolor" "texture Kr" ["ABC.Kr.scale"]</pre></blockquote>  or  <blockquote><pre>Texture "ABC.fresnel" "fresnel" "fresnelcolor" "color Kr" [0.23 0.5 0.1]</pre></blockquote>   {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | fresnelcolor::Kr || color/texture || The color or texture that should be reflected by the textured object. || 0.5 |}  ====gaussian====  Defines a spectrum along a gaussian curve  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | gaussian:energy || float || Energy of the spectrum || 1.0 |- | gaussian:wavelength || float || Frequency at the peak of the curve (in nm) || 550.0 |- | gaussian:width || float || Width of the curve (in nm) || 50.0 |}  ====imagemap==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | imagemap::filename || string || Path to the image to use. || Required. No default. |- | imagemap::wrap || string || How to wrap the texture using "repeat", "black" (black beyond texture) or "clamp" (clamps to border color) || Required. No default. |- | imagemap::filtertype || string || one of: "bilinear", "mipmap_trilinear", "mipmap_ewa", "nearest". || "bilinear" |- | imagemap::maxanisotropy || float || The eccentricity of the ellipse used in the EWA algorithm || 8 |- | imagemap::trilinear || bool || Toggle trilinear filtering on from the default (better but slower) EWA algorithm. || false |- | imagemap::channel || string || one of: "mean", "red", "green", "blue","alpha", "colored_mean". || "mean" |- | imagemap::gamma || float || Input gamma value to use for reverse gamma correction || 2.2 |- | imagemap::gain || float || Scaling factor for the image || 1.0 |}  ====marble==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | marble::octaves || integer || The number of octaves to use in the spectrum. || 8 |- | marble::roughness || float || The "bumpiness" of the texture. || 0.5 |- | marble::scale || float || Scaling factor for the noise input. || 1 |- | marble::variation || float || moderates perturbation magnitude || 0.2 |} ====mix==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | mix::tex1/tex2 || color/float/fresnel texture || The two textures (of the same type) to mix with the "mix" texture. || 0 and 1 respectively |- | mix::amount || float texture || The degree of mix between the two textures while linearly interpolating between them. || 0.5 |} ====normalmap==== A special version on imagemap for loading of normal maps. The image specified should be a tangent-space normal map (other spaces are not supported). It can be used with math/utility textures such as add or multimix to combine with with a simple bump map. It should be attached (after mixing, if needed) to the "bumpmap" slot of the surface material. Attaching it to other material slots causes it to act as a bump map.  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | normalmap::filename || string || Path to the image to use. || Required. No default. |- | normalmap::wrap || string || How to wrap the texture using "repeat", "black" (black beyond texture) or "clamp" (clamps to border color) || Required. No default. |- | normalmap::filtertype || string || one of: "bilinear", "mipmap_trilinear", "mipmap_ewa", "nearest". || "bilinear" |- | normalmap::maxanisotropy || float || The eccentricity of the ellipse used in the EWA algorithm || 8 |- | normalmap::trilinear || bool || Toggle trilinear filtering on from the default (better but slower) EWA algorithm. || false |- | normalmap::channel || string || one of: "mean", "red", "green", "blue","alpha", "colored_mean". || "mean" |- | normalmap::gamma || float || Input gamma value to use for reverse gamma correction || 1.0 |- | normalmap::gain || float || Scaling factor for the image || 1.0 |}  ====scale==== Multiplies 2 inputs  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | constant::value || color/float/fresnel texture || The constant value of this texture. || 1 |- | scale::tex1/tex2 || color/float/fresnel texture || The textures to multiply by the "scale" texture || 1 |}  ====subtract====  Example of use: <blockquote><pre>Texture "Subtracted" "color" "subtract" "texture tex1" ["myTexture"] "color tex2" [0.0 0.5 0.0]</pre></blockquote>  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | subtract::tex1/tex2 || color/float texture || The textures to subtract. tex2 is subtracted from tex1 || 1.0,1.0,1.0 |}  ====tabulateddata====  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | tabulateddata::filename || string || Path to tabulated data file || |}  ====windy==== Windy has no parameters aside from the 3D transform parameters  ====wrinkled==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | wrinkled::octaves || integer || The number of octaves of to use in the spectrum. || 8 |- | wrinkled::roughness || float || The "bumpiness" of the texture. || 0.5 |}  ===Blender procedural textures emulation=== LuxRender includes some code imported (with author's permission) from the [http://www.blender.org Blender] sources in order to emulate Blender procedural textures. The list is of supported textures is:  *'''blender_clouds''' *'''blender_distortednoise''' *'''blender_noise''' *'''blender_magic''' *'''blender_marble''' *'''blender_musgrave''' *'''blender_stucci''' *'''blender_wood''' *'''blender_voronoi  A usage example:   Texture "mat_proc::col1" "color" "constant" "color value" [1.0 1.0 1.0]  Texture "mat_proc::col2" "color" "constant" "color value" [1.0 0.0 0.0]  Texture "mat_proc::blender_musgrave" "float" "blender_musgrave"  Texture "mat_proc::mix" "color" "mix" "texture tex1" ["mat_proc::col1"] "texture tex2" ["mat_proc::col2"] "texture amount ["mat_proc::blender_musgrave"]  Texture "mat_proc::Kd.scale" "color" "scale" "texture tex1" ["mat_proc::mix"] "color tex2" [0.900000 0.900000 0.900000]  MakeNamedMaterial "mat_proc" "string type" ["matte"] "texture Kd" ["mat_proc::Kd.scale"] "float sigma" [0.000000] "float bumpmap" [0.000000]  ====blender_clouds==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | blender_clouds:noisetype || string || Noise type. One of: 'soft_noise', 'hard_noise' || soft_noise |- | blender_clouds:noisebasis || string || Noise basis type. One of: 'blender_original', 'original_perlin', 'improved_perlin', 'voronoi_f1', 'voronoi_f2', 'voronoi_f3', 'voronoi_f4', 'voronoi_f2f1', 'voronoi_crackle', 'cell_noise' || blender_original |- | blender_clouds:noisesize || float || || 0.25 |- | blender_clouds:noisedepth || integer || || 2 |- | blender_clouds:bright || float || Brightness || 1.0 |- | blender_clouds:contrast || float || || 1.0 |} ====blender_distortednoise==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | blender_distortednoise:type || string || Distort noise by this noise pattern. One of: 'blender_original', 'original_perlin', 'improved_perlin', 'voronoi_f1', 'voronoi_f2', 'voronoi_f3', 'voronoi_f4', 'voronoi_f2f1', 'voronoi_crackle', 'cell_noise' || blender_original |- | blender_clouds:noisebasis || string || Noise basis type. One of: 'blender_original', 'original_perlin', 'improved_perlin', 'voronoi_f1', 'voronoi_f2', 'voronoi_f3', 'voronoi_f4', 'voronoi_f2f1', 'voronoi_crackle', 'cell_noise' || blender_original |- | blender_distortednoise:noisesize || float || || 0.25 |- | blender_distortednoise:distamount || float || Amount of distortion || 1.0 |- | blender_distortednoise:noisedepth || integer || || 2 |- | blender_distortednoise:bright || float || Brightness || 1.0 |- | blender_distortednoise:contrast || float || || 1.0 |}  ====blender_magic==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |} ====blender_marble==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | blender_marble::noisesize || float || Blender Texture Button(F6) -> Marble -> NoiseSize  || 0.25 |- | blender_marble::noisedepth || integer || Blender Texture Button(F6) -> Marble -> NoiseDepth  || 2 |- | blender_marble::turbulence || float || Blender Texture Button(F6) -> Marble -> Turbulence  || 5.0 |- | blender_marble::type || string || Blender Texture Button(F6) -> Marble -> Soft/Sharp/Sharper (valid values: soft, sharp, sharper) || soft |- | blender_marble::noisetype || string || Blender Texture Button(F6) -> Marble -> Soft Noise/Hard Noise (valid values: soft_noise, hard_noise) || hard_noise |- | blender_marble::noisebasis || string || Blender Texture Button(F6) -> Marble -> Sin/Saw/Tri (valid values: sin, saw, tri) || sin |- | blender_marble::noisebasis2 || string || Blender Texture Button(F6) -> Marble -> Type (valid values: blender_original, original_perlin, improved_perlin, voronoi_f1, voronoi_f2, voronoi_f3, voronoi_f4, voronoi_f2f1, voronoi_crackle, cell_noise) || blender_original |- | blender_marble::bright || float || Blender Texture Button(F6) -> Colors -> Bright  || 1.0 |- | blender_marble::contrast || float || Blender Texture Button(F6) -> Colors -> Contrast  || 1.0 |}  ====blender_musgrave==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | blender_musgrave::h || float || Blender Texture Button(F6) -> Musgrave -> H  || 1.0 |- | blender_musgrave::lacu || float || Blender Texture Button(F6) -> Musgrave -> Lacu  || 2.0 |- | blender_musgrave::octs || float || Blender Texture Button(F6) -> Musgrave -> Octs  || 2.0 |- | blender_musgrave::gain || float || Blender Texture Button(F6) -> Musgrave -> (Ridget Multifractal, Hybrid Multifractal) Gain  || 1.0 |- | blender_musgrave::offset || float || Blender Texture Button(F6) -> Musgrave -> (Ridget Multifractal, Hybrid Multifractal, Hetero Terrain) Ofst  || 1.0 |- | blender_musgrave::noisesize || float || Blender Texture Button(F6) -> Musgrave -> NoiseSize  || 0.25 |- | blender_musgrave::outscale || float || Blender Texture Button(F6) -> Musgrave -> iScale  || 1.0 |- | blender_musgrave::type || string || Blender Texture Button(F6) -> Musgrave -> Type (valid values: multifractal, ridged_multifractal, hybrid_multifractal, hetero_terrain, fbm) || multifractal |- | blender_musgrave::noisebasis || string || Blender Texture Button(F6) -> Musgrave -> Type (valid values: blender_original, original_perlin, improved_perlin, voronoi_f1, voronoi_f2, voronoi_f3, voronoi_f4, voronoi_f2f1, voronoi_crackle, cell_noise) || blender_original |- | blender_musgrave::bright || float || Blender Texture Button(F6) -> Colors -> Bright  || 1.0 |- | blender_musgrave::contrast || float || Blender Texture Button(F6) -> Colors -> Contrast  || 1.0 |} ====blender_noise==== This texture has no parameters of its own, only the 3D transform properties  ====blender_stucci==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | blender_stucci:type || string || Pattern type. One of: 'plastic', 'wall_in', 'wall_out'|| plastic |- | blender_stucci:noisetype || string || Noise type. One of: 'soft_noise', 'hard_noise' || soft_noise |- | blender_stucci:noisebasis || string || Noise basis type. One of: 'blender_original', 'original_perlin', 'improved_perlin', 'voronoi_f1', 'voronoi_f2', 'voronoi_f3', 'voronoi_f4', 'voronoi_f2f1', 'voronoi_crackle', 'cell_noise' || blender_original |- | blender_stucci:turbulence || float || || 5.0 |- | blender_stucci:bright || float || Brightness || 1.0 |- | blender_stucci:contrast || float || || 1.0 |}  ====blender_wood==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | blender_wood:type || string || Pattern type. One of: 'bands', 'rings', 'bandnoise', 'ringnoise' || bands |- | blender_wood:noisetype || string || Noise type. One of: 'soft_noise', 'hard_noise' || soft_noise |- | blender_wood:noisebasis || string || Noise basis type. One of: 'blender_original', 'original_perlin', 'improved_perlin', 'voronoi_f1', 'voronoi_f2', 'voronoi_f3', 'voronoi_f4', 'voronoi_f2f1', 'voronoi_crackle', 'cell_noise' || blender_original |- | blender_wood:noisebasis2 || string || One of: 'sin', 'saw', 'tri' || sin |- | blender_wood:noisesize || float || || 0.25 |- | blender_wood:turbulence || float || || 5.0 |- | blender_wood:bright || float || Brightness || 1.0 |- | blender_wood:contrast || float || || 1.0 |} ====blender_voronoi==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | blender_voronoi:distmetric || string || Distance Metric, one of "actual distance", "distance_squared", "manhattan", "chebychev", "minkovsky_half", "minkovsky_four", "minkovsky" || actual_distance |- | blender_voronoi:minkowsky_exp || float || Minkowski exponent || 2.5 |- | blender_voronoi:noisesize || float || Noise size || .25 |- | blender_voronoi:nabla || float ||  || .025 |- | blender_voronoi:w1 || float || Weight 1 || 1.0 |- | blender_voronoi:w2 || float || Weight 2 || 0.0 |- | blender_voronoi:w3 || float || Weight 3 || 0.0 |- | blender_voronoi:w4 || float || Weight 4 || 0.0 |- | blender_voronoi:bright || float || Brightness || 1.0 |- | blender_voronoi:contrast || float || || 1.0 |}  ==PBRT Volumes (deprecated)== ''These volume types are deprecated! Instead you should use normal shapes with Interior/Exterior defined. See [[Scene_file_format_1.0#Mediums_.28Object_Volumes.29|Mediums]] for more information.  Here are the volume types. There is no default type.  *'''exponential''' *'''homogenous''' *'''volumegrid''' *'''cloud'''  ===Common Volume Parameters=== Here are the common parameters for the old volumes.  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | sigma_a || colour || The absorption cross section. || 0 |- | sigma_s || colour || The scattering cross section. || 0 |- | g || float || The phase function asymmetry parameter. || 0 |- | Le || colour || The volume's emission spectrum. || 0 |- | p0 || point || One corner of the bounding box defining the volume calculations. || 0 0 0 |- | p1 || point || The second corner of the bounding box defining the volume calculations. || 1 1 1 |}  ===Specific Volume Parameters=== These parameters are specific to individual volume plugins:  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value |- | exponential::a/b || float || exponential::a and exponential::b are the parameters in the ae^{-bh} formula || 1 |- | exponential::updir || vector || The "up" direction along which to compute height. || (0,1,0) |- | volumegrid::nx/ny/nz || integer || Each of these parameters denote the number of voxels in the x,y and z directions respectively. || 1 |- | volumegrid::density || float[nx*ny*nz] || The array of density values. || 0 |}  ==Mediums (Object Volumes)== The mediums are essentially "volume materials", they are applied to a shape independent of the surface materials described above. That shape then becomes the bounds for the described volume. All shapes accept both an interior and exterior volume. Which side is the "interior" for meshes is determined by the surface normal. A ray striking the front a face and transmitting is considered to be entering the interior volume set for that face, striking the backface is considered to exiting into the exterior volume set for that face.  All mediums allow a fresnel input to specify the index of refraction within that volume. (Currently, this property is only accounted for when intersecting an object with the glass2 material). Relative index of refraction between the interior and exterior mediums is calculated automatically, so the index of refraction specified should always be the absolute IOR (that is, the value representing the speed of light in that volume relative to a vacuum)  Here are the medium types, there is no default type.  *'''clear''' *'''homogeneous''' *'''heterogeneous'''  ===Example=== Here is a sample clear volume named "water":   MakeNamedVolume "water" "clear"      "float fresnel" [1.333299994468689]      "color absorption" [0.68557313 0.43993088 0.35927745]  Note that absorption (clear) and sigma_a (homogeneous) represents the absorption spectrum of the volume (that is, the color lost passing through the volume). As a result, the actual color the volume appears will be the opposite of the color given for absorption. If you are finding this difficult to work with, you can attach the colordepth texture to absorption/sigma_a. Colordepth allows you to set any color input as the resulting color after transmitting a specific depth, the proper absorption spectrum will be computed automatically.  ===Common Medium Parameters===  {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value !theoretical range !recommended range |- | fresnel || fresnel || The refractive index of the volume || 1.0 || x > 1.0 (the core will accept values below 1.0, but the result will not be correct || 1.0 - ~2.5 |}  ===Specific Medium Parameters===  ====clear==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value !theoretical range !recommended range |- | absorption || color || The absorption cross section. || 0 || x â‰¥ 0 || ~0.1-20 |}  ====heterogeneous==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value !theoretical range !recommended range |- | sigma_a || color || The absorption cross section. || 0 || x â‰¥ 0 || ~0.1-20 |- | sigma_s || color || The scattering cross section. || 0 || x â‰¥ 0 || .001-.1 (as exterior, for atmospheric effects), 50-10000 (as interior, for SSS) |- | g || float || The phase function asymmetry parameter. This is a float triplet, with asymmetry for red, green, and blue ends of the spectrum. || 0 || -1.0 - 1.0 || ~-0.2 - ~0.2 |- | stepsize || float || Size in meters of the ray marching steps used to evaluate integrals through the medium || 1 || x â‰¥ 0 || size of sigma_s features |}  ====homogeneous==== {| class="wikitable"  cellpadding="5" border="1" !name !type !description !default value !theoretical range !recommended range |- | sigma_a || color || The absorption cross section. || 0 || x â‰¥ 0 || ~0.1-20 |- | sigma_s || color || The scattering cross section. || 0 || x â‰¥ 0 || .001-.1 (as exterior, for atmospheric effects), 50-10000 (as interior, for SSS) |- | g || float || The phase function asymmetry parameter. This is a float triplet, with asymmetry for red, green, and blue ends of the spectrum. Despite using the "float" command for constant values, it accepts color textures, not float textures. || 0 || -1.0 - 1.0 || ~-0.2 - ~0.2 |}`df
